Java/J2EE Developer
BCBSA - Chicago, IL
Project Description: Blue Exchange (BX) solution is a Health Care Transactions Exchange platform solution, where Receiving, Validating and forwarding the healthcare related transactions and acknowledgements from host plans to home plans and vice versa in two formats such as ANSI X12 EDI and Value-Chain-Markup-Language (VCML) XML documents. It is composed of multiple components interacting among themselves while communicating with other external components such as Web Sphere MQ Applications and others.  Responsibilities: • As a Lead, Involved in requirement analysis and worked closely with Health Care Transactions Exchange platform Solution on understanding and gathering requirements • Involved with the team in building out a lean, responsive UI layer utilizing Bootstrap, AngularJS API architecture while adhering to the latest web UI standards, design patterns, and best practices. • Worked on user interface and user experience by developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, Ajax. • Used web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting different information from different external systems. • Developed and consumed Restful webservices and SOAP webservices. • Conducted brainstorming sessions within team and with interfacing teams to understand the wholistic picture of the requirements. • Helping team in understanding the requirements and guiding the team on best approach on implementation. • Developing code for multiple modules of BEAST and HomeConnections. • Applying PCMS Framework for UI development, navigation between screens and transaction Management. • Using Core Java  for implementing the business rules. • Used XSLT for transforming the one format of the response to the other format. • Design and development of the business using Spring and Hibernate. • Involved in implementing the JMS (Java messaging service) for asynchronous   communication. • Involved in creating Database SQL queries. • Implemented Singleton classes for property loading and static data from DB. • Wrote different queries for database to retrieve the details from the Oracle database. • Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API for XML parsing messages. • Worked with JUnit framework for writing JUnit tests. • Used JSON to XML and XML to JSON conversions apis to convert the message flowing in and out. • Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans. • Created and modified Complex SQL Commands. • Used Ant and Maven building tool. • Used Sonar, Findbugs to identify and fix statis defects to maintain coding standars. • Used Jenkins for building the application and promoting the application to various higher environments. • Implemented Agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles. • Used Log4j for Logging various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files. • Used Bugzilla for bug tracking. • Participating in all stand-up meetings to sync-up with the Use case requirements. • Assisting in high level coding, implementation and integration testing. • Handling all major functionalities and modules in project. • Supporting for issues reported. • Technical representation of the team. Leading team technically.  Environment: Java , J2EE, Webservices (SOAP, RESTFul), Collections, Threads, Jenkins, SONAR, FindBugs, Oracle, JBOSS, Apache Ant, CVS, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, JMS
