Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer
Dish Network - Englewood, CO
Dish Network is an American direct-broadcast satellite service provider. The company provides satellite television, satellite internet, audio programming, and interactive television services to commercial and residential customers in the United States. The company is headquartered in Meridian, Colorado, though the postal designation of nearby Englewood is used in the corporate mailing address  Responsibilities: • Involved in complete SDLC Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support for the project. • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of project and Developed process flow, data flow and use case interaction diagrams in Microsoft Visio. • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), Mantis to manage the issues/project work flow, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build. • Designed and developed the common page layout and created screens by assembling facelets and screen definitions in centralized configuration files. • Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework with Primefaces based on MVC Architecture with EJB, Simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP and JSF UI Components as View and Faces Servlet as a Controller. • Creating views with JSF Framework and Service Layer Classes using Session Beans. • Developed and designed UI Search and results screens using JSF, XHTML and CSS. • Used Prime faces as a JSF extension libraries for rich components such as Accordion, Calendar, Data Table, Panel. • Generating complex reports in PDF as per CMS guidelines, using Jasper soft Studio-5.1.0. • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript and XHTML pages. • Configured faces-config.xml and navigation.xml to set all page navigations and created EJB Message Driven Beans to use asynchronous service to perform profile additions. • Developed EJB components that are deployed on WebSphere Application Server. • Fix defects as needed during the QA phase, support QA testing, troubleshoot defects and identify the source of defects. • Involved in design, development & testing of business components using EJB Session beans. • Integrated Spring DAO for data access with mybatis.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, Prime faces 3.2, Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring 2.5, Servlets, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, XML, CSS, JavaScript, DB2, EJB 3.0, ILOG, Adobe Photoshop CS6, Eclipse, Visio, Wireframes and Mockups
