Java/J2EE Developer
Blue Cross Blue Shield - Richardson, TX
Responsibilities: ➢ Involved in developing the Controller framework using Annotated REST based Spring controller. ➢ Involved in setting up the application Service layer using Spring IOC framework. ➢ Developed the service classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers. ➢ Extensively worked on the Sybase database creating the efficient stored procedures. ➢ Monitoring and tuning SQL Server database performance using SQL Profiler, DMV's, Index Tuning Wizard and Windows Performance Monitor. ➢ Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally. ➢ Designed and Implemented Unit testing using JUNIT Framework. ➢ Optimized ExtJS themes and prepared performing applications ➢ Used agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings. ➢ Used JavaScript for client side validation and used OOPS methodology to develop the application. ➢ Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes. ➢ Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML. ➢ Extensively used JSON, Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications. ➢ Involved in developing the web services of the application to provide user information and testing with SOAP UI. ➢ Utilized Adobe Flex, Hibernate and Spring to implement project within JBoss5. ➢ Development of front-end i.e. JSPs and server-side java components i.e. container managed Entity beans, stateless session beans, Action classes, writing unit test cases and unit testing. ➢ Designed and implemented UNIX automation scripts, frequently utilizing KORN and BASH Shell, in cooperation with UNIX Tier III Resolver Group.  Environment: Core Java, Java, J2EE, AJAX, GUI, JSF 2.0, CSS, HTML, JSP, Java, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring 3.2, Web Services (REST), SQL, Maven, Shell Script, Oracle, LINUX, Solaris, MAC
