Java Developer
Amerisource Berge - Texas
Description: AmerisourceBergen is driving innovative partnerships with global manufacturers, providers and pharmacies to improve product access and efficiency throughout the healthcare supply chain. As part of the largest global generics purchasing organization, the leading specialty pharmaceutical services provider and the partner with more community and health system pharmacy relationships than any other - we're well positioned to help you capitalize on the dynamic changes in healthcare. From product commercialization and distribution to pharmacy, provider and manufacturer solutions, we're working with you every day to enhance patient care  Responsibilities: • Involved in the various phases of the Scrum technique of Agile Methodology like story pointing, Daily Scrum meeting and End meetings. • Prepared technical design documents including sequence diagrams, flow charts, class diagrams and etc. • Developed user interface using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML5 • Responsible for developing Use cases, Class diagrams for the modules using Microsoft Visio. • Used spring framework for dependency injection with the help of spring Configuration files. • Developed modules that integrate with web services that provide global information support. • Involved in developing new Session Beans and also interacting with existing EJBs. • Application development using java web based technologies such as Servlet, JSP, Java, Web Services (Rest/Soap based), WSDL. • Implemented WSDL to DOM (Domain Object Model) mapper. • Implemented SOAP request Error Handler (Validates SOAP Request Object against WSDL) • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, and XML. • Developed the HTTP based web services Client which calls up the existing web services to get the application related data which comes in XML format. • Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating. • Applied J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, DAO, and Singleton etc. • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit. Environment: Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, Hibernate, spring, SVN, JUnit, Oracle 11g, Quick Build, Eclipse and QC.
