MIDDLEWARE ARCHTECT/WEB ENGINEER
Paychex Inc - Webster, NY
• Responsible for the design, development & maintenance of the deployment software process for the main Core Advanced Payroll system which comprises of 500+ Linux servers.   This automated process deploys more than 30,000 servers per year without any major issues.   Written with Ant/Shell/Python scripting and using SSH between the deployment servers and the target servers with the configuration stored in a Stash Repository. • Lead the conversion of the deployment server OS upgrade. Completed without incident and reduces the risk of having obsolete infrastructure for the Core Advanced deployment system. • Lead the technical design effort for the Core Advanced JBoss Uplift project from JBoss4.3 to EAP6.4 (JBoss7). Eliminated many technical debts and introduced principles of Continuous Delivery which allows for the developments teams to turn around code changes more frequently and thus provide client features/fixes quicker. • Reduced the manpower required to support the Core Advanced system from 2+ people to less than 1 person. • Offloaded many of the basic Life Cycle jobs for the Web Engineering team to the Data Center team. • Implemented and Configured AppDynamics as the standard monitoring tool for all JVMs corporate-wide. • Performance Tuning of JVMs and setup standards for all applications. • Responsible for designing/writing the mechanism for easily configuring Oracle's Coherence7.1 Caching software. • Implemented a procedure to offload certificates to the F5 LTM and reduced the overhead of maintaining complex certificates. • Lead the upgrade of the SAML certificates for the gateway system and was completed on-time and without incident and coordinated with 10+ vendors. • Save $100K annually by eliminating the need for a 3rd party deployment tool called IBM's BuildForge • Assist the WebEng team with support of Web Servers, LDAP, SiteMinder, WebLogic, JBoss, F5, Layer7, etc.. • Agile Methodology, Git, AppD, Splunk, Confluence wiki, ServiceNow • Development duties as needed in C and Java.
