Sr. Java Developer
CIM Group- SanFrancisco, CA
Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings. • Developed the enterprise application by integrating JSF/Spring/Hibernate Frameworks. • Heavily used the Dependency Injection feature provided by spring framework for bean wiring. • Used Spring framework's JMS support for writing to JMS Queue, Hibernate Dao Support for interfacing with the database and integrated spring with JSF. • Added interactivity to the UI pages using JavaScript. • Used Apache ActiveMQ for  fast, supporting  many Cross Language Clients and Protocols, comes with easy to use Enterprise Integration Patterns and many advanced features • Developed Contract first Web Services using Spring-WS to communicate with Database Tables. • Provided a new Web Service and Client using Spring-WS to get the alternate contractor details. • Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, MySQL and Perl • Developed integration services using SOA, MuleESB, Web Services, SOAP, and WSDL • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON( few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology)  Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents. • Developed and implemented several test cases using JUNIT framework and Integration testing in staging environment. • Expertise in implementing various Object Oriented Design Patterns such as Model View Controller, Front End Controller, Data Access Object, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object, Session Facade and Singleton • Worked with JSR - 286 port let complaints for inter port let communication in Life ray • Made SDLC recommendations and implemented Flex, xml development best practices. • Used Splunk and other log file/system information tools to troubleshoot and debug application issues • Developed user interface using HTML, JSP, CSS and implemented client side validations using JavaScript using AngularJS framework and Bootstrap framework. • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information. • Designed all JSP pages using custom designed tags to populate web page content from Content Management Systems (CMS). • Participating development of FIX messages processing engine (Java, FIX Protocol). • Implemented JMS listeners to connect to the Tibco JMS queues for producing and consuming JMS messages. • Developed JSR 168/286 portlet services and utility applications for the Enterprise Portal. • Use of Multithreading and Collections Framework including List, Map etc. • Used Spring-JDBC configuration to manage some transactions across multiple databases. • Designed and developed the service business process and data access to Oracle database and back-end layers with JAXB, JMS and XML. • Implemented and tested features of Mark Logic Server including System Monitoring and Flexible Replication • Developed a web Application Using UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3. • Extensively involved in writing the SQL queries as per the business requirements. • Developed Stateless Session beans and Entity Beans for implementation of the persistence layer. • Used Factory, Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate and DAO Patterns. • Used Maven for building the applications EAR for various environments. • Designed, developed JSP, Servlets and deployed them on JBOSS Application Server. • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy. • Developing JSR286 portlets and portlet services for Agent facing portal utilizing IBM WebSphere Portal v6.1.5 • Used HTTP for coordinating Internet engineering task force. • Extensively used the Java collections Framework Classes for Holding the Application objects. • Designed and created Hibernate persistence classes using Hibernate API. • Wrote Stored Procedures/Triggers/Functions using SQL Navigator to perform operations on Oracle 10G database. • Built a high performance single threaded server framework using Java NIO. • Developed reporting application in Rails which queries MarkLogic Server to generate Excel reports • Participating development of FIX messages processing engine (Java, FIX Protocol). • Used JUNIT extensively and defined various Test Suites and Test Cases. • Used Log4J to trace the flow of the application. • Deployed application on BEA WebLogic Application Server 9.2 to get efficient performance. • Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers.  Environment: JDK 1.6, JSF 1.2, JBoss, Flex, Spring-jdbc 2.5, ESB, Spring-ws-core 1.5, Wsdl4j 1.6.1, SOAP, Jaxb-api 2.1, Jms 1.1 Open Source Frameworks: Spring 2.5, fix, Hibernate 3, Maven 2, Log4J and JUnit 4.4 IDE and Tools: Eclipse 3.4, AngularJS, SQL Navigator Data Bases: Oracle10g, DB2. Version Control / QA tool: Subversion, tortoise SVN, Mercury Quality center Application Server: BEA Weblogic Application Server 9.2
