Senior Quality Assurance Engineer, Python Programmer
Teltronics Inc - Sarasota, FL
* Created test cases in Mercury Quality Center Test Lab and Test Plan section based on Functional Specification Document (FSD) of the current software in validation. * Interacted with software programmers when the FSD was missing information or lacking of it pertaining to my current area of testing so the FSD can be corrected. * Entered defects or enhancement request using Mercury Quality Center when need be and followed up with those entries until they were fixed. * Examined database in SQL Server Management Studio by querying tables to verify problems seen in information or values displayed in the client software. * Examined XML created by the client software that is then sent to hardware to help narrow down a current problem. * Setup servers to run our server and client software. This included installing MS Server 2003 or 2008 with their appropriate service packs. Installation of MS SQL 2005 or 2008 with their appropriate service packs. On occasion an image of the hard drive using Acronis - True Image would be made. * Performed new installs of our client and server software, noting any failures or exception during the process. Configuration of  appropriate setting in windows DCOM and Local Security Settings following the install. On occasion an image of the hard drive using Acronis - True Image would be performed so there would be a clean readily available instance of our software to go back to on that particular version. * Performed upgrades on our client and server software, noting any failures or exceptions during the process. Prior to the upgrade I would perform a backup of the SQL database created and used by our software.  On occasion I might have to run special procedures in SQL query if something didn't make the build. * Maintained my own working station, XP Professional, by ordering and installing new hardware or OS when needed. Formatting and replacing OS in the worse case. * Created automated scripts using Mercury - Winrunner to help with testing of the software and hardware the department test. * Created scripts using Python to enhance the capability of the software and hardware the company made. This involves the following; (1) Creating a Functional Specification Document (FSD) based upon a Primary Requirement Document (PRD) that is created by product management. (2) Reviewing the FSD with  product management & engineering management for approval and  respond to questions. (3) Working with beta customers to obtain any data needed in creating and testing the script when completed. (4) Once completed maintaining the script and all documents pertaining to it such as the FSD and PRD in MS Visual SourceSafe. (5) Fixing any defects or adding enhancements to the script. * Provided support to the customer support team in regards to the software, hardware and Python Scripts I was responsible for. * Trouble shoot and resolved problems involving access to our shares in our domain to other departments or people in the parent domain. Often time this is a matter of trust issues between the domains or OS security settings on the server trying to be access.
