USDA/NRCS software support
Spry Methods, Inc - Fort Collins, CO
Responsibilities (Software Support/Technical writing) Spry Methods (TeamVistronix) […] Supervisor(s): Jim Ramirez & Todd Campbell Phone: […] & […]    Supported the call intensive Client Gateway Application rollout, AAA support via phone, chat, & email, helped QA team with Smoke, Functional, Regression, Load, and Usability testing of CG1, provided QA for the CGW AAA process. Tier III:  Researched Agency wide 2GW routing/Networking problems3 and concluded that the issue was specific to a router security measure within the BIA(Bureau of Indian Affairs) […] Researched Call Logging Software with Jim Ramirez, resulting in the agency-wide adoption of the ServiceNow call tracking and process management software, Adopted Technical Writer templates for use in creating internal Help Guides in an Agency-wide documentation effort, wrote Installation docs, and User Aids on the departmental Sharepoint site,  Created a work- around of posting files to external FTP site to enable users to retrieve GW map data when FTP download speeds slowed; Developed extensive Protracts,Toolkit, Gateway & CMT Support Technical guides(searchable by keyword/content), create user manuals, documented software How-To guides, created Standard Operating Procedure documentation for TK, PT CMT, & employee orientation guide,  Glossary & Acronym reference sheets, created new employee orientation and training manual, created hierarchical escalation trees(assist in design of support structure for CRM environment). Assisted with preparation of Toolkit Teleconferences. Assisted with POAMS and TechREG support logging at peak load. Performed Toolkit & ProTracts tier 1 support, (additionally performed Tier 2 ProTracts issues per request, and “on-call” work for special assignments as needed) executed test cases for the CRM Common Desktop project.  Accomplishments Awards & Achievements: •    2 time awardee of Vistronix Standard of Excellence award •    A new position getting 1% commission of total corporate sales was created for me at Traders Network(as reward for my sales support efforts for the rest of the team) •    Headed a project to find suitable eCart/Store to interface with ecommerce merchant servicing site which was adopted for use as the corporate eCart for all software, book, and seminar series for the entire company:  Traders Network •    Located a failing load balancer within the USDA network shortly after I started back in […]  I did some math that indicated that the failure was happening about 25% of the time.  As I gathered more information from the Network team(not an easy task with the Government), we were able to pin – point it to one of 4 the load balancers that were controlling that server farm. •    Collaborated with Department Lead to discover and research a call Tracking software system which was adopted for use by multiple government agencies and continually growing in use.  Skills Used Internet routing analysis, interpretation of customer issues, navigation of Federal bureaucracy, negotiated access to Federal resources and networks, excellent customer service, patience, compassion, trace analysis in a very large and cumbersome network.
