Senior Java Developer
PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA
This project is developed mainly to serve the huge domain of customers. The application also allows bank employees to open a new account for customers or access, modify the customer account information based upon their role. The application offers various functionalities, some of the them include Transfer Funds, Make a Payment, Set up Automatic Payments, Keep the Change, Receive the bills electronically, Request E-mail Notifications, Balance Enquiry. Etc. Responsibilities: • Participated in creating Data Models. • Worked in team to create object relational Mapping Classes. • Developed application using Spring JPA, Angular JS and Bootstrap on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate. • Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject Data Access Objects into business services. • Used Spring Dependency Injection (DI), Spring MVC and AOP (Aspect oriented Programming).  • Used HTML5 wireframes with CSS provided by the design team. Angular JS is used to make it dynamic. • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic. • Used JMS for Application Communication purpose. • Implemented web-service integration components from SOA using SOAP, WSDL and RESTful webservices • Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams. • Business logic is implemented using Spring and Hibernate. • Worked as a Full stack Developer from end to end. • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database. • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging. • Developed Data Services using XML messages that use REST webservices. Created WSDL and the REST envelope. • Junit is used to test restful end point methods. Tested the transactional Function for service level method using Junit. • Used Maven for compiling and building the code. • Used Eclipse with all the plug-ins (Subversion, Find Bugs, etc.) • Used tomcat cluster on red hat Linux. • installed java application on Linux/Unix • configured log4j using Linux/Unix • Followed the Agile Software Development Process. • Received XML Messages via JMS and parts them using JSON • Used Subversion for configuration Management and Jira for task management and bug tracking.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 8, Spring Dependency Injection(DI), AWS, Hibernate, Spring DI, JPA JMS, XML, TDD, AWS, REST webservices, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, SOA, Angular JS, UML diagrams, Data services, Bootstrap, JDBC, SVN, JUNIT, Maven, Oracle 11g/12c, Javascript, Linux/UNIX JIRA, Active MQ, JSON, Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic  , Log4J..
