Sr. UI/UX Developer
Johnson Controls, Inc - New York, NY
Responsibilities: ✓ Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex. ✓ Design and Development of User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, Java Script and XML, Ajax, JQUERY. ✓ Developed User interface framework for application using struts ✓ Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology. ✓ Design front end with css3 and HTML coding. ✓ Verification of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript features compatibility in the device browsers. ✓ Responsible for front end tier development using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Ajax ✓ Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces. ✓ Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit. ✓ Developed Hibernate persistence layer modules using EJB Java Persistence API (JPA) annotations and Entity Manager. ✓ Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern. ✓ Used Ajax calls extensively - using Jquery, inside the WebApps and create a seamless flow of Quotes. ✓ Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application. ✓ Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements. ✓ Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML5 ✓ Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations ✓ Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side. ✓ Developed of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. ✓ Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations. ✓ Developed PL/SQL procedures for login module and written complex SQL queries. ✓ webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers. ✓ Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor. ✓ Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic ✓ Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++. ✓ Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers. ✓ Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. ✓ Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain. ✓ Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. ✓ Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose. ✓ Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS. ✓ Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript. ✓ Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework. ✓ Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Web Logic, Apache CXF, Rest, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Coherence, Mongo DB, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Oracle, Crud, PL/ SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, Itext, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Clear Case, Jasper Report, ILog, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA.
