SR. JAVA DEVELOPER
VERIZON - Chicago, IL
Projects Description: IPRICE IPrice is integrated pricing Web Application used for pricing and creating orders for different telecom products (ATM, Frame Relay, IP VPN, VZ DIA, and HIPC) of Verizon. The Customer or the Sales Engineer of Verizon can use iPrice System to create products with their requirement like the Bandwidth, Term Commitments, Available SWC Clli and PoP Clli, etc. iPrice validates all these details entered as input against the service availability in the existing legacy system.  Responsibilities: • As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience • Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries • Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL • Experience with SQL and basic CRUD operations • Extensively worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC • Spring Framework has been extensively used in all layers of the application including UI, backend and integration. Daos were implemented using iBATIS, Hibernate. Developed Web Services using SOAP, REST, Apache CXF while integrating with the license server to validate the licenses. • Good exposure to REST full and SOAP based web services • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++. • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit. • Provides technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing Agile methodologies and procedures that are efficient, effective and meet good business practice • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, Java Web Start, EJB's and Web logic • Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library • Design and develop GUI and back-end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment. • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application • Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic  Environment: Java/J2ee, Spring, Hibernate, Strut, Jquery, Ajax, Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crude, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, Junit, Agile Uml, Jsps, Jstl, Servelts, Maven, Itext, Google Web Toolkit(Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web2.0, Soa.
