Sr. Java UI Web Developer
ABN AMRO - Reston, VA
Description: ABN AMRO also provides investors and financial advisors with a broad range of brokerage, mutual fund, banking and other consumer financial products on an integrated basis. It provides its customers with latest financial market data and comprehensive research information as well as web trading. Quotes and news are distributed to clients in real time through Java Applets. "TradeFolio", a Java applet is a portfolio-tracking tool that allows clients to view real-time financial information, including news, latest prices, fundamentals and charts.  Responsibilities: • Participated in the sprint review meetings and explained the technical changes to the clients. • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using JQuery and JavaScript. • Used JQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 to interact with the JavaScript functions • Developed the Site using the Struts with Spring Integration using the tiles framework • Designed data formatted web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML and CSS and deploy the script by client side scripting using JavaScript. • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc. • Developed Business logic in a separate layer and integrated into Action classes using the Business façade design pattern • Used Java Naming/Directory Interface (JNDI) and JDBC connection pooling to access the database seamlessly. • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework. • Implemented business logic using Struts action components in the Struts and Hibernate framework. • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting. • Developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks • Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC. • Involved in development of back-end business layers using Servlets • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols. • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server. • Written Junit test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts, D3, JSON, Three JS to do client side validations. • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery. • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain. • Worked with Clearcase source management. • Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Git. • Developed the presentation layer using Java Server Pages (JSP), Leaflet, Grunt, Tiles, Ajax and Java Script. • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database. • Used My Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application. • Test the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the GreenBox response   data and Mongo DB data. • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations. • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache. • Utilized Mongo database management system for keeping user generated data. • Deployed the developed web components on Apache Tomcat Web-Server. • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, Javascript, ExtJs. • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO and JQuery. • Involved in the development of reports using iText tool. • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum. • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose. • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces. • Application is deployed on WebSphere Application server. Maven is used as a build tool • Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit API with PostgreSql • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking • Visualization, planning and implementation of Web 2.0 initiatives. • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service • Deployed the applications in Linux servers using deployment scripts. • Responsible for building the environments for pre-production and production environments. • Participate in weekly status meeting with client and manager. • Work Allocation to the team members.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Websphere, APACHE CXF, SOAP, Web Services, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Mongo DB, Leaflet, Grunt, D3, JSON, Three JS, Coherence, Angular, js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Git, Github, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, XML, ITEXT, Oracle ECM, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, SUBVERSION (SVN), Jasper report, ILOG, JRules, Scrum, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP
