Technical Lead / Network security engineer / c++/ python
Alten Calsoft Labs - Santa Clara, CA
Location    Santa Clara, CA Period    June 2010 - till date Technologies used    C / C++ & Python Description & Role   Radware's ADC-VX(TM) is the industry's first Application Delivery Controller (ADC) hypervisor that runs multiple virtual ADC instances on a dedicated ADC hardware, Radware's OnDemand Switch platforms. ADC-VX is designed from the ground up to enable organizations to consolidate their multiple ADC hardware devices into a single, cost effective consolidate device without compromising resiliency or performance predictability of their ADC services - resulting in significant savings of hardware costs and operational expense.  During this project, I have been involved in many project releases developing/enhancing following features in the virtualized as well as standalone environments across Radware's array of devices like 4408, 4416, 5412, 5224, ODS4 blade switches & Soft vADC switches on Vmware/Openstack: • Separation of L2 functionality from L3/L4 and L7 services which runs in vADC • Traffic distributor - An intelligent layer which distributes traffic across many virtual ADCs residing on single hardware platform. • Updating L2 configuration and dynamic tables (STG, VLAN, ports) to vADCs • High Availability (VRRP- v4/v6) - Active-Standby, Hot-Standby and Active-Active • State-full/Service based fail-over by session mirroring on virtualized as well as standalone platforms • Virtual Matrix Architecture (VMA) - A proprietary solution of Alteon switches to bind a sessions to specific switch processor (SP) • L2 to L7 Network Address Translation features on traffics like ICMP, UDP, TCP & HTTP • L7 based pattern match filtering for IPv6 traffic • WAN link & Firewall load balancing for IPv6 traffic • L4-L7 filters: Return to sender (RTS) and Reverse session • OSPF path cost adjustment based on VRRP states • Bug fixing and reviewing across the projects undertaken  My responsibilities for this job are: • Developing, Enhancing and sustaining the product features. • Coordinating with onsite managers to collect requirements for handling new features. • Technically lead and advice junior team members. • Handling customer cases and tier team's requests. • Prepare and review design and test plan documents. • Creating setups and perform unit testing. • Involving in troubleshooting, debugging and performance tuning of code.  Project    Contribution to Openstack Cloud Networking Project (Neutron) Client    Alten Calsoft Labs Location    Santa Clara, CA Period    January 2015 - Till date Technologies used    C, Python, Openstack OS Description & Role   Openstack(TM) is an open source and massively scalable cloud operating system which enables data center administrators to easily deploy and manage virtual machines (VMs) . It controls huge pools of compute, storage and networking resources across the data centers while allowing administrators and their users to provision resources through a web interface/dashboard in turn helping them create and manage public/private clouds.  I have worked on openstack-enabled setups and development environment in my corporate premises which has enabled me to understand: • Openstack public/private cloud deployments • Openstack cloud management capabilities • Openstack internals (Mostly networking (Neutron) along with exposure to Compute & Storage) • Openstack development, review & testing process by involving in mailing list communications • Openstack development (GIT) and review tools • Openstack source code structure  By gaining above exposure I was involved in working towards the contribution in the area of Load balancing as-a-service (LBaas) plug-ins in Openstack Neutron component.
