Java J2EE Developer
BancTec - Irving, TX
Company Profile: BancTec is a global provider of Financial Services. Online Secured Transaction is one of their products for banking institutions, which can manage secured transactions online of their customers. The individuals and business to this system allows customers to access a range of services for their accounts. Consumers/Customers can check credit limits, check account balances, perform account transactions such as fund transfers, Check processing, bills payable/receivable and receive alerts and notifications to mails.  Responsibilities: • Actively involved in Analysis, Detail Design and development, bug fixing and enhancement in Agile methodology, actively involved in design and developing of J2EE components • Created Use cases and Sequence diagrams using UML • Developed Servlets which acts as a controller in MVC architecture • Data validation done using JavaScript and Struts Validation framework. • Created dynamic web pages (UI) using HTML, DHTML, JSF, JQuery and AJAX. • Created JSP's for designing various modules in an application • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to map the database tables, and wrote DAOs and POJOs to integrate with Spring Framework. • Worked on Spring Web Flow (SWF) for using of tiles in JSP and AJAX partial rendering • Involved in multi-tier Java EE design utilizing Spring IoC and Hibernate deployed on Websphere  Application server connecting to the database • Used Hibernate for Persistence layer and DAO for wrapped Hibernate functions • Implemented asynchronous messaging services using JMS. • Worked on complete coding and design to front-end with the implementation of JSP and Servlets. Developed custom tag libraries(TL) for some of common JSP functionalities • Worked on project deployment files such as web.xml and context definition files for servelet mapping , Transactions,  JSP's declarations and database connection pooling. • Worked on components like business domain objects, model objects (JPA), interruptions and correction etc. • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL and XML. • Used JQuery (a JavaScript library) and plug-ins for faster UI development • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL and XML • ANT tool is used for XML mapping and building EAR, JAR files • Worked on File upload utility (VSS) for claim investigating module • Used CVS for configuration management and version control(SVN) • Involved in unit testing using  Junit. • Created dynamic web pages (UI) using HTML, DHTML, JSF, JQuery and AJAX. • Involved in writing Oracle Stored Procedures and access them through Java Programs. Environment: Java 1.5, Agile, J2EE, JSP, JSF, JCA, CSS, JQuery, XML, JMS, Hibernate3.0, JPA, Spring 2.5, RAD v7.5,  IBM Websphere Application Server 7.x, SOA, Struts Validation framework 2.0, Design Patterns , JTA, JAX-WS, HTML, DHTML, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, ANT 1.7.0, AJAX, JUnit, Apache Log4j, CVS, SVN, VSS.
