Sr. Java Developer
Catalina Marketing Corporation - Saint Petersburg, FL
Description: Artisan is the offer entry system for the digital delivery of consumer incentives. Artisan supports  Print at Home, Load to card and Mobile  offer entry for  digital sites such as Coupon.Target.com, Couponnetwork.fr, couponnetwork.jp , intermarche.com across the US, France and Japan. Catalina Media Gateway provides set of services for distribution and usage of offer content. The main objective of the Media Gateway is to expose key functionality to partners and allow them to better serve the needs of our end consumers.  Roles and Responsibilities • Analyzing Requirements, Preparing Functional design and Low Level Technical Design document • Coordinate efforts with offshore development team to ensure code quality. Perform code reviews, team training, and code refactoring to maintain quality standards. • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings and paired programming to produce quality deliverables within time. • Experience in implementing Web Services (Restful/SOAP). • Created Restful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems. • Experience in using XML, XSL and XSLT for implementing Web Services. • Experienced in deploying applications on Apache Tomcat Servers. • Experience in using IDE's like Eclipse and Net Beans, integration with Maven. • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code improving API documentation quality and availability while reducing maintenance costs. • Developed generic web service architecture using Spring Web Services, JAXB, and Hibernate which could transform responses into SOAP, REST, & JSON of core business logic and communication protocol. • Involved in writing ad hoc Unix Shell Scripts (Ex: Getting the performance reports from daily log files, start and stop application server etc). • Provided 24/7 support (Carried pager) for web servers, Application Servers and applications deployed on clustered application server environment. • Created a build environment for Java using Jenkins, Github, and Maven.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, spring, REST, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Ajax, Maven, Ant, gradle, Linux, UNIX, SOAP, JIRA, Web, Tomcat, Jenkins,  Github, Sonar, Websphere , Eclipse.
