Java\J2ee Developer
United Health Group - Basking Ridge, NJ
Description: United Health Group is a diversified health and well-being company offering an array of integrated products and services.  Myuhc2.0 Myuhc 2.0 APIS are used by internal applications (such as RALLYHEALTH) in united Health Group. Where this APIs are built with implicit grant security, and provides the eligibility, provisioning, plans, financial, id card information of each member.  Responsibilities: * Developed the application using Agile scrum methodology and followed TDD. * Designed and developed financialAPI, ssooutboundAPI, nureseline API using rest web service (Apache cxf), Spring Boot framework. * Developed a testing tool (UI) to test the entire API using HTML5, Angular JS, Jquery, JSTL, HTML and CSS. * Developed various Angular controllers, services, filters, directives in the application for web interfaces. * Used extreme caching for the performance of API and implemented implicit grant security for the API. * Worked with site minder and Spring security for the authentication of user information and developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes which are used across all the modules of the application. * Developed automated test cases using Cucumber, Junit and Selenium and used Jenkins for Continuous integration to open shift environment. * Developed tables, views, complex views, and procedures using mysql Developed a testing tool (UI) to test the entire API using HTML5, Angular JS, Jquery, JSTL, HTML and CSS. * Used object storage container to store the secured files, and retrieved from API by using amazon web services. * Deployed the code using Jbosseap 6.1.2 and created the domains in openshiftenvironment (ose). *    Wrote build & deployment scripts on ruby and used RAD as application development IDE Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE 1.7, Spring 4, JSP, XML, XSD, mysql5.6, JavaScript, Jquery, Angular-JS 1.3, log4j, Jboss6.1, Cucumber, Junit, GIT, Jenkins and OSE.  Cirrus Cirrus is one of the core applications in United Health Group. This application deals with the integration of all modules of provider, networks, contractors, members, claims.  Responsibilities: * Worked in Provider Module using Agile scrum methodology and followed TDD. * Designed and developed provider screens, practical and billing address association, and affiliation of provider to another provider using Spring 4 frameworks with internal Resolution framework. * Developed web pages using Angular-JS, DHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS. * Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and directives for the provider module and used various directives and inbuilt services. * Developed business services, data access objects using Spring and Spring JDBCTemplate. * Used spring declarative transaction management to manage transactions in the application. * Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application. * Developed unit test cases using Jmock and Spock specifications. * Developed tables, views, complex views, procedures using mysql. * Wrote Spring message listeners using Spring JMStemplate to consume messages from queue. * Deployed the code using Jboss 6.1.2 and used Intellij for application development. *   Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven, shell scripts and on UNIX env. Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE 1.5, Spring 4, HTML5, XML, XSD, msql5.6, JavaScript, Angular-JS, log4j, Jboss6.1, Spock and mock, svn
