DevOps / BUILD AND RELEASE ENGINEER
Outerwall Inc - Bellevue, WA
Responsibilities: • Provided CM and Build support for more than 4 different applications, built and deployed to lower and higher environments. Defined and Implemented CM and Release Management Processes, Policies and Procedure. • Automated the release pipeline to achieve zero touch deployments using Jenkins, GIT, and Nexus. • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using Subversion (SVN) source control. • Developed and integrated the deployment process in CI environment using Jenkins. • Configured and maintained Hudson to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds. Took the sole responsibility to maintain the CI Jenkins server. • Created deployment workflows in Jenkins which includes pre release, release and Post release steps • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for SVN/GIT. • Implement, maintain and support reliable, timely and reproducible builds for project teams. • Work towards automation and streamlining process with Puppet tool for accuracy of deployments and maintenance. • Experience in provisioning the amazon servers. • Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using chef configuration management. • Maintain and troubleshoot AWS infrastructure issues. • Organize AWS cloud and migrate all production environments utilizing AWS technologies(VPC, ELB, EIP, EC2, IAM, Auto Scaling, SNS, Amazon Route 53, RDS, EBS) • Automate regular tasks using puppet and maintain and the existing puppet modules. • Maintained build related scripts developed in shell for Maven builds. Created and modified build configuration files including POM.xml. • Worked with development team to migrate Ant scripts to Maven. • Experienced in authoring pom.xml files, performing releases with the Maven release plugin, and managing artifacts in Sonatype NEXUS repository. • Used Maven dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects and environments. • Researched and implemented code coverage and unit test plug-ins like findbugs, checkstyle and PMD with Maven/Hudson. • Work with development/testing, deployment, systems/infrastructure and project teams to ensure continuous operation of build and test systems. • Install, configure and administer application servers like Oracle/BEA WebLogic Server […] Apache Tomcat and Jboss, web servers like Apache 2.0/2.2, IIS and MySQL Databases in various environments like Development, QA, and Production on Linux and Windows Operating Systems. • Deployed code on Web logic Application Servers for UAT, IST, and Development environments. • Worked on the Oracle databases in the backend to execute the DMLs and DDLs. • Own full lifecycle of build system - from analysis, development, implementation and support of builds, unit testing and deployments. • Interact with developers and Enterprise Configuration Management Team for changes to best practices and tools to eliminate non-efficient practices and bottlenecks. • Responsible for all environments support and share in two-person on call rotation. • Implement new and maintain old monitoring systems (Nagios). Write new and fix or rewrite old Nagios plug-ins (Bash and Perl) for production applications and databases. • Expert in writing scripts for scheduled tasks using shell and python. • Experienced in using Atlassisan tools like Confluence, Jira and Stash.  Environment: SVN, Jenkins, Web logic, soap ui, Nexus, Sonar, JIRA, Oracle, Shell, WLST, Python, Ant, Maven, Java, Linux, Puppet, AWS.
