Sr. UI Developer
Schneider Electric - Rockville, MD
Schneider Electric SE is a European multinational corporation that specializes in electricity distribution, automation management and produces installation components for energy management. It is headquartered in Rueil-Malmaison, France and is also based at the World Trade Center of Grenoble.  Responsibilities: • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective. • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and JQuery. • Responsible for the development of web applications and scripts utilizing JavaScript, HTML5, PHP and MySQL. • Created Web back-end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL / Oracle databases. • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications. • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML. • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets. • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript using Dreamweaver. • Creating and Integrating REST API / WebServices for websites in Jquery. • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and JQuery. • Used SQL for Creating, Reading, Updating, Selecting data from MySQL database. • Developed different JQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc. • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, Angular.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap. • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js to accommodate these advanced and fast technologies. • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and bulk update of attributes using Angular.js and JQuery. • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, UX, cross-browser compatibility and SEO /web standards. • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI. • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website. • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI. • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML. • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI. • Involved with cross browser testing and compatibility using chrome, Firefox and IE. • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration. • Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSP, PHP, JSON, MVC, DOM, SEO, Adobe Dreamweaver, angular.js, bootstrap, Ext.js, MySQL, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Oracle, Windows.
