Senior Java Consultant
VISA - Foster City, CA
Title: Dots Automation. Description Dots application is used to manage the VISA/CyberSource data center virtual machines smartly and will be shared by different groups to host different environments. The purpose of this project is to procure Dev/Feature/Pen/Regression testing environments on demand basis. This application provides platform as a service (PAAS) feature to the different groups at VISA. Key features of this project are VM Creation, machine provisioning, App Restart, Load balancer Automation, Lease extension, Build and Release automation.  Dots application also maintains track of all the pool creation requests requested by different teams in the form of workflow. DOTS app uses the vCenter, vSphere API to create, restart, shutdown virtual machines in the datacenter. This application has three modules namely DOTS App, UI and Admin. Using the admin tool dots test lab team can enter the new pool entries and Meta data info of the servers, admin is also used to track the status of a new pool and expired pools. Responsibilities ● Developed the application features using Agile Methodology and Implemented the User Stories with high business value using good techniques and practices. ● Designed and developed Restful APIs using spring and Jersey framework. ● Implemented some self-service features like App restart, LB Automation, lease extension, host file edit, build/deploy automation through Dots application. ● Developed some front end screens using AngularJS, Coffee, NodeJS and Grunt. ● Modify the existing application code to adapt the new DOTS infrastructure and thereby improving the application performance. ● Gather DOTS related information from the SQL Server database and created Metadata specific data base objects to store data for further analysis. ● Worked on buildfoge api, JIRA api, vSphere api, Viper APIs. ● Lead team and daily co-ordination between the DOTS development team, analyze user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints and design, develop and modify software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design. ● Designed and coded application components in Agile environment writing user story and developing user stories in every sprint. ● Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' and tested the application in each iteration ● Develop web services as per VISA Cyber Source Global platform specifications using JAX-RS API that is portable across all application servers. ● Responsible for writing the DOTS application DAO layer using Spring and Hibernate. ● Responsible for enhancing the DOTS admin tool functionality using the JSON, Spring, Jersey Restful web services and Hibernate. ● Implement new DevOPS API client to consume the Restful web services and thereby automating the workflow process. ● Writing Junit/JMock test cases for the existing DOTS enterprise application. Environment: Spring3.0, Hibernate, Jersey Restful Web Services, SOAP, Agile, Scrum VSphere api, JSCH, Rabbit MQ, Redis Cache, Apache Activiti Workflow, Eclipse, tcServer, Tomcat 7.x SVN, MongoDB, MSSql Server, GIT, JIRA, JQuery, AngularJS, RequireJS, LDAP, SAML, ANT , Maven, Chef and Puppet
