Senior Java/ J2EE developer
Liberty Mutual - Boston, MA
Description: Ecommerce application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance. The application is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Center applications and generating quotes and policies, payments and reports. Designing and developing web solutions using Java, HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular Js, Spring, Oracle and SOAP services.Involved in integration and software architecture, service-oriented architecture (SOA), RESTful design, AOP, design patterns for distributed software, object-oriented analysis and design, relational database design in agile environment with sprint cycle of 15 days.  Roles & Responsibilities: • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts. • Used Ext Js framework for the development of web application using AngularJs, Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting. • Developed a module as SPA using Angular JS with Angular routers and controllers. • Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML 5, Java Script, XML, JSP, CSSas per the requirements and providing the client side using JQuery validations. • Used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements. • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript. • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly. • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework. • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations. • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API, which will be used across the framework. • Used SpringCoreAnnotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework. • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems. • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications. • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL. • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request. • Build SOAP Web Services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services). • Implemented HTTP REST API using Node Js and express. • Development of DAO layer using HibernateTemplate, JDBC Template and Mongo Operations. • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience. • Designed and developed customized ESB to integrate and govern SOA services. Built various capabilities in ESB like Security, Message routing, message transformation, transaction management etc. • Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Gradle. • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files. • Used Junitfor the unit testing of various modules.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, AWS, Oracle, SOA, WebSphere, TOAD, HTML 5, CSS, XML, Angular Js, Mongo DB, TOAD, SVN, Node Js, ESB, Jenkins, SOAP, Log4J, Junit
