Software Engineer
INTEL SECURITY - Englewood, CO
• Key member of large project creating a web-based GUI and automated back-end processes for testing potential new rules for spam analysts to filter spam. Front-end contains complex data entry screens to write rules and create the test parameters using PHP, JSON and ExtJS 4.1.1 (using advanced Data Grid). Back-end is written in PHP and Perl and uses Php-Resque, Perl-Resque and Reddis to schedule and process tests and build core rules package pushed to users. • Oversaw all aspects of Software development using Agile methodology. Completed initiative in 3-week sprints using Agile Planning Poker. Version 1 system is used for all user stories to track progress. Used code collaborator tool to peer review code before release to testing and production environments. • Supported PHP and Perl-based Threat Portal GUI application and other tools used by Threat Technicians to support McAfee SaaS Email product. Tools allowed techs to respond to issues with spam emails for large customer base. • Enhanced Threat Portal GUI to display and create a file called Dynamic Spam Classifier (DSC); as part of a McAfee product used on email appliances to filter spam. System replaced manual process to create the file. Streamlined process aids Threat Techs in selecting compatible tools create the file. • Enhanced Threat Portal GUI with ExtJS application called Live Analytics. First phase took PHP scripts that would email Excel spreadsheets with data and modify them to write files to location on a Linux server and store information about the file location in database and email a confirmation and link to the GUI screen that displayed the file. The second phase was a PHP and ExtJS Grid that displayed created and processed files by users to prevent duplication. • Improved Perl scripts to process files of CIDR rules and update a database with rules that have been either activated or de-activated and to process email in a POP Mailbox and write the contents of the email to a database.  Parker, CO 80134    (303) 263-6380    nancy.gassen@gmail.com    LinkedIn: Nancy Gassen  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE    )
