Sr Java Developer
Interactive communications - Atlanta, GA
Platform Independence is the project in progress to distribute the load among the different segments so that the customers won't have any latency. This project had many modules like card status, redemption, balance enquiry etc. are used by clients of Incomm to sell and redeem gift cards. This project's aim is to have the avoid achieve platform independence by processing the core products independent of interface they are coming through.  Responsibilities: • Developed application using Rest services using CXF, JAX-WS frameworks. • Developed several single page web applications using AngularJS on the client side • Developed UI interface using HTML, Java Script, CSS, JQuery • Used XML for exchanging financial information between businesses over internet • Designed various XML files to store, carry and exchange data • Involved in implementation of the application using spring and Hibernate frameworks. • Involved in coding for Spring IOC, WEB and AOP modules. • Used Spring MVC Framework to define Dispatcher Servlet, Controller, model and View Resolver. • Worked on Singleton, DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Proxy design patterns to achieve complex functionalities in the application • Developed Web Services for data transfer using SOAP, REST, WSDL, and UDDI. • Worked on code management activities in SVN version controls • Participated in Build and Deployment activities using MAVEN build scripts. • Designed and developed Web Services and SOAP components as client service interfaces that replaced the legacy IBM MQ Series Message Broker. • Responsible for identifying and creating the MQ objects required for the interfaces. • Involved in working with JMS Queues (Producers/Consumers) in sending and receiving asynchronous messages via MDBS • Also designed and developed the messaging framework using JMS. • Queries for accessing data were built using the Hibernate API. • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report to MQ Server using MQSeries. • Worked with JMS for reliable exchange of information across applications. • Developed XML documents for storing user specific information which includes various options selected by the user. • Configured JBOSS Application Server's server settings to improve Performance of the application. • Used JUnit and JMeter to test SOAP Web services and application code • Interacted with Testing team in testing phase through JIRA by responding to the defects tracked  Environment: Java1.6, Core Java, JavaScript, XML, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring 3.0, SOAP/REST, web services, Apache CXF, JDBC, Design Patterns, Scrum, Oracle, JIRA, MAVEN, JUnit, JMeter, JBOSS, SVN.
