Sr.Java Developer / Lead Consultant
Northern Trust Company USA - Chicago, IL
Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, Spring, Oracle 11g, Weblogic 10.3, Agile, Salesforce SOAP Webservices.  Description: MessageCenter integration with Salesforce provides the opportunity to securely contact the Customer Care center and for Helpdesk person to quickly respond to the customer queries and clarification. The Message's are stay in the Inbox and customers have option of reply to the message and delete the message from Inbox. The email notification will be sent to customer upon creation of the message inquiry and when the helpdesk reply to the message. The salesforce helps Business Partner to review the user profile in 360 degree and generated the reports on tracking of the enquiry message on Monthly/Quarterly basis.  Responsibilities:   Participated in Business Requirements meeting to understand scope of the requirement.   Participated in Sprint planning and Backlog refinements.   Facilitate daily scrum and Sprint review/Demo.   Helped the team in removing technical and requirement impediments to complete the Sprint.   Designed UML, Sequence and flow diagram for the requirement.   Performed Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.   Developed Salesforce API services to integrate with the web application.   Developed Spring IOC pattern for integrating the web components.   Written queries in Salesforce and have experiences in using Salesforce workbench/Developer console.   Configured Salesforce certificate in Weblogic server.  Designing custom fields and objects require in Salesforce.   Developed integration services with Salesforce using Webservices SOAP and Restful method.   Used SONAR analysis to for managing code quality.   Used Eclipse IDE for development.   Involves in walkthrough design, code to the Product Support team.   Helps in tracking defect logs from Quality Center and tracking the same to closure.   SCM for code management and migration to environments.   Perform Portal migration from one environment to other.   Perform database dry run for production release.   Handles Production release and coordination.   Performs requirement traceability matrix using Quality Center tool.   Prepared Weekly Status Report and Quarterly Project Release Report to Client.
