Java/J2EE Developer
BCBSA - Chicago, IL
Project Description: Blue Exchange (BX) solution is a Health Care Transactions Exchange platform solution, where Receiving, Validating and forwarding the healthcare related transactions and acknowledgements from host plans to home plans and vice versa in two formats such as ANSI X12 EDI and Value-Chain-Markup-Language (VCML) XML documents. It is composed of multiple components interacting among themselves while communicating with other external components such as Web Sphere MQ Applications and others. Responsibilities: • Involved in the High level and detailed design, Coding, Testing, and Implementation of the applications. • Implemented Spring Framework for dependency injection (IOC) to inject appropriate class objects depending on the source of the application process. • Designed a scalable solution with MQ Series for varied multiple front end clients submitting applications to the system. Solved the message congestion and request response latency problem using a priority flag set upon MQ message header as per the request origin source system. • Implemented/Developed core J2EEpatterns: MVC, DTO, DAO, Developed SQL queries and executed them by using JDBC Template provided by spring. • Made use of Data Transfer Object (DTO) design pattern for designing data access layer. • Used different spring annotations to implement business layer components and configured for web application. • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery. • Developed enterprise beans that are exposed as JAX-RPC web services (packaged in EJB 2.1). These EJB's render responses from either databases or calling other web services based on the business requirement. • Involved in unit Integration, bug fixing, Design Reviews, and Code Walk through Client interaction and team support. • Deployed and tested the application on WebSphere Application Server. • Used Log4J to logging, debugging, and providing warning and info on the server console. • Wrote SQL queries, PL/SQL functions and stored procedures. • Involved in the code review process and updating the best practices document. • Used IBM stack Rational Application Developer 8.0, WebSphere Application server, IBM MQ and Broker and Clear Case for development, integration and versioning. • Used Message Driven beans to read the messages from JMS queues for asynchronous communication. • Used Clear Case as the version control and Clear Quest as the defect tracking tool. • Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages on the queue.  Technologies Used: Java 1.6, JMS, JTA, JNDI, Web Sphere MQs, Clear Case, Clear Quest, spring 3.0, JDBC Template, IBM RAD, Web Sphere 8.5, TOAD for Oracle, WINSCP, SQL, JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery.
