Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
West Corporation - Omaha, NE
Description: West Corporation operates under two segments: Communications Services and Unified Communications to provide customer contact services, conferencing services, event services and emergency call operations. Intrado supports emergency call operations, Intercall is the world's largest conferencing service provider and Televox offers healthcare products and communications support in commercial markets  Responsibilities: • Designed and developed features for J2EE-based business activity monitoring and operational dashboard engine, including the rules and alert engine, web-app components, recoverability, intelligent workflow features, internationalization, and upgradability. • Developed the Application Module using several design patterns like Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Façade, prototype and Composite View. • Developed the necessary front end user interfaces in JSP's, HTML, Java Script, CSS and AngularJS that will be integrated using Spring MVC Framework. • Developed Form Beans/ JavaBeans, Spring Controller Classes and configured with the corresponding JSP pages in spring-config.xml file. • Established wizard flows with spring webflows. • Developed test suite framework and regression tests for rules and alerts engine, recovery engine, object manipulation functionality, import/export engine and user-defined function handling using JUNIT • Involved in design of Scheduling Application using the Activity, Data Flow, Class and Sequence UML diagrams • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence. • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database. • Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages. • Designed and coded JAXB API to interact with third party application for asynchronous loading and parsing of JMS XML messages • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy. • Worked on CORE JAVA (Collections of type Generics, ArrayLists and several Data Structures) and used the core packages. • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes. • Wrote and modified stored procedures/Triggers (DML/DDL) to implement complex business rule. • Established efficient exception handling and logging using Spring AOP. • Developed Web Services using REST, WSDL, UDDI and XML. • Maintaining separate build in ANT for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Cruise Control • Developed the application on WebSphere Application Server environment with RAD7.0 as development IDE. • Configured Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, Git and JUnit. • Used HP Quality center for defect tracking. • UAT support and bug fixing.  Environment: J2EE 1.7, WAS 8.0, RAD7, Springs 3.0, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring DAO, Hibernate 4.0, JavaBeans, web services, Mainframes, JSP1.2, DHTML, JSF, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, CICS, SVN, AngularJS, ClearCase, Oracle9i, QC, JUnit, Selenium, Log4j, Rational Rose.
