Java/J2EE/UI Developer
AT&T - Atlanta, GA
Responsibilities: • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD) • Consumed Restful web services using apache Http Client for the data coming from external systems. • Developed the Web application using HTML5, AngularJS and Javascript. • Implemented Reporting SPAs using AngularJS, Angular Directives, Bootstrap, CSS3, LESS, Glyphicons and Grunt. • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria. • Developed UI using bootstrap dropdown multi-select, bootstrap modals Implemented a suite of app wide MODALS for application configurable warnings and alerts, Developed Tab Widget, Tree Widget, user interfaces and controllers and their templates. • Used Spring Validation framework to implement the server side validations and used Angularjs, AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects. • Developed angular unit test cases to test angular components using Mocha, Gulp, Chai, Protractor, Karma and nodejs. • Implemented Front End using HTML5 app with Angular JS 1.2, Bootstrap, CSS3, WebAPI, Angular Directives, ng-* directives, queue, deferred, promise APIs, Mongo JavaScript Expressions in Angular ($match, $group, $sort, $limit) etc. • Created and managed daily/weekly builds using Jenkins for CI/CD and used pipeline plug-in for managing multi project jobs efficiently. • Used TestNG framework for writing automated unit testing for application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. • Implemented Hibernate Caching (Query and second level EH Cache) for frequent queries executed against database for reports. • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks • Initiate AJAX requests with jQuery and handle responses in plain text, HTML and XML formats. • Configured Spring AOP and used Spring declarative transaction management for transactions. • Coordinating with the build team in the deployment activities, Integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews. • Used SOA architecture SOAP Web services and integrated Web Services and JMS applications using Mule Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) • Reviewing the Database Schemas across the different domain. Worked on the Integration of the Code and deliver the build to UAT Team. • Used extensively Eclipse in development and debugging the application. • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on JBoss Server. • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews. • Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations. • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO, Service, and Controller components using JUnit, DBUnit and Spring Test support. • Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and Design patterns.  Environment: Java 1.7, Junit, JBoss 7, SOA, Mule ESB, Oracle, JSP, HTML5, AngularJS, bootstrap, Karma, Mocha, Jenkins, Maven, Hibernate, MVC/MVW, Spring, Eclipse, REST Web services, Maven, Ext-JS, AngularJS, Junit, log4j, Javascript, Subversion
