Java/J2EE Developer
Verizon - Irving, TX
Description: VZSIEM (Verizon- Security Information and Event Management) This system provides the ability of gathering, analyzing and presenting information from network and other connected devices along with identity and access management applications, vulnerability management and policy compliance tools, operating system, database and application logs, and external threat data. A key focus is to monitor and help manage user and service privileges, directory services and other system configuration change as well as providing log auditing and review and incident response. Responsibilities: • Analyzing the business and functional requirements provided by the client. • Involved in all phases of the SDLC. • Understood functional specifications, designing and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. • Responsible for design & analysis of UI components and integration with existing J2EE. • Participating in project design sessions to document technical specifications and to provide design options and solutions. • Used JavaScript library Angular JS for the UI Development. • Used Spring MVC Framework for developing web applications. • Integrated Spring Framework with Hibernate. • Implementing MVC, DAO J2EE design patterns as a part of application development. • Developing DAO interfaces for hibernate to interact with databases. • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities. • Implemented client-side application to invoke Restful Web Services. • Implemented server side Restful web services for external vendors to access our applications. • Implement advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic. • Store all log data generated from the network to HDFS for further processing. • Involved in writing Map Reduce Programs for further processing. • JDBC framework is used to establish the communication with oracle database. • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. • Developed SQL & PLSQL queries for Oracle. • Working on Web technologies including Tomcat, Apache, Http and Web service architectures. • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems. • Successfully implemented Web services and exposed the service to the inter application communication. • Worked in a structured development environment with build & configuration management tools (Maven) • Using SVN for software configuration management and version control. • Preparing test cases and strategies for unit testing and integration testing. Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, MAVEN, Web Services (SOAP, Restful), HDFS, MAPREDUCE, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS, AJAX, Html5, JSP, JSTL & SERVLET, DB2, Log4J CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Xml, Subversion, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP
