Team Lead - Java/J2EE
Wayne, PA
Environment: Java, JAVA 1.6, Hibernate, SOA, JBOSS, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, JMS, JSP, Struts  A2B (Application to Booking Lease Management System) Description: De Lage Landen is an international provider of high-quality asset-based financing products. The company, headquartered in Eindhoven, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Dutch Rabobank Group with offices and joint ventures in 32 countries throughout Europe, USA and recently in Australia and New Zealand. DeLage Landen specializes in asset financing and vendor finance programs internationally, with a focus on the following industries: agriculture and food, healthcare, IT, materials handling and construction equipment, office equipment, and telecom.  A2B is Java/J2EE based Lease Booking System which enables the vendors and customers to come on same platform and get into a Lease Contract. DLL on behalf of Customers finance the Deal/Contract and A2B enables the whole workflow to do the pricing, amortization schedule, verifying the involved party's credibility, taxation, funding and legal verifications. A2B is integrated with various outside systems like Super Trump, Vertex, Transunion, D&B, Trillium and ICV in order to perform various activities like Pricing, Credit History, Taxation, and Address Validation etc. Deal/Contract is passed to OLM (Oracle Lease Management) once it is successfully booked and the later lifecycle of deal is managed in OLM (like Billing Cycle, termination etc.)  Responsibilities: • Gathering the understanding the business requirement from functional users. • Writing the Technical Design Document based on the functional requirement and shares the same with technical architect. • Splitting the work in small deliverables and assign to other team members to work in parallel. • Reporting to Project Manager on weekly basis on the progress of development work. • Writing and testing the Core and Common Business Logic. • Presenting the Change to Release Management Team and get the deployment keeping backward compatibility in mind. • Collaboration with offshore team members on their deliverables. • Database Design, Development and performance tuning of new DML queries getting introduced in Hibernate Application Service Layer. • Responsibility and Accountability of End-to-End delivery of deliverables.
