Java J2EE Developer
Persistent Systems Ltd., , NY
Project Description: Group Long Term Care Application Genworth Financials developed this portal for facilitating their group insurance customers, their spouses and their dependents to access the website via internet and get the group insurance quote depending upon offering selected by the Employer with Genworth Financials INC. The application takes care that core quote offered by employer is better than selected quote then guides user accordingly. The portal also gives customer different products and services provided by Group Insurance. Some of the most significant capabilities of this portal include: •Deliver product forms depending on state and age given •Has as e-submission functionality which helps user fill all forms online and submit application electronically  Responsibilities: • Implemented MVC architecture using Eclipse IDE. The developed application had a separate paradigm for design layer, presentation layer and control layer. • Integrated Struts (MVC architecture) and Tag Libraries to created interactive form-based applications. • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for enhancements. Was involved in story break up and task prioritization. Worked closely with the SCRUM team and BA's to understand the requirements of the customers • Utilized DAO, MVC, DTO Java/J2EE enterprise design patterns during story break up. • Wrote MySQL queries to persist and retrieve data to and from the Oracle 11g relational database with Hibernate ORM. • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. • Implemented Struts Framework with JSP. • Used Spring IOC model for the database layer with Hibernate • Deployed application in the Web-logic Server environment using Maven build tool. • Involved in J-unit testing and system testing and also responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing. • Worked on Struts validations using validation.xml, validation-rules.xml. • Used JSP custom tags and Stored Procedures in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages • Used Webtrends Analytics to collect data about users, on-site search. • Used Captcha for the validation • Used Hibernate ORM to integrate the business application with Oracle Database. • Involved in Unit Integration, Pre-Production testing, Client Acceptance Tests and Approvals.
