Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Citigroup Inc - Chicago, IL
Project Description: Concierge is used by the Citibank financial centers to support all sales, services  and the customer problems resolution functions. Concierge  provides  a 360 degree view of  the customer showing the full citi  accounts relation ship including banking, credit card loan mortgage and brokerage accounts. Concierge is used to perform accounts opening for consumer and commercial asset, liability, brokerage &retirement accounts concierge account opening includes end to  end process comprising third party verification,  risk and anti- money laundering , comprehensive fulfillment processing  including checkbook and card printing, rewards  program enrollment , citi mobile enrollment and all accounts opening forms (terms and condition, disclosures, tax forms). Concierge also includes full sales supports by presenting pre -approved  credit offer in account opening and servicing, sales referral processing, and sales  compensation computation.  Responsibilities: • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex. • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework. • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using eAgent frame work JSPs, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, iFrame and JavaScript. • Used AJAX to implement some customizations which required dynamic behavior like controls dependent on user value selection on some other controls. • Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from font-end JavaScript (ExtJS) to server-side Java methods (ExtDirect). • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript. • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap • Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views • Developed the CRUD API for the POSEngine using Restful Webservices. • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process. • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF. • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers. • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor. • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers. • Deployed EJB Components on WebLogic • Used Subversion for software version control. • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend. • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. • Components used are Gigaspaces/Javaspaces and Tangosol Coherence for the in memory database • Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development. • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle. • Used Require.js, Backbone.js and jQuery to create multiple JavaScript applications • JSON is used for serializing and deserializing data that is sent to or receive from JSP pages • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application. • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server. • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports. • Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit. • Update Jasper Report configurations to make the changes in the reports. • Worked in SOA architecture Websphere Message broker for integration with Pega and ILog • Writing web 2.0 optimized website content. • Worked with business teams using Agile methodology to integrate business line of apps with SOA in a seamless fashion.  Environments: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), MongoDB , Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Junit, Node.js, Angular.js, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pagesstandard Tag Library), Coherence, Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa.
