Java / J2EE Developer
OCIO, State - Lincoln, NE
Description: As part of application data maintenance, applications are deactivated and purged after a certain amount of time. Batch jobs are scheduled on a daily basis to take care of such maintenance activities. Quartz is a full-featured, open source job scheduling service that can be integrated with, or used alongside, virtually any Java application - from the smallest stand-alone application to the largest e-commerce system Information Network for Resident Online Access and Delivery of Services (inROADS), will use the APIs to schedule the jobs and the job timings are maintained in reference tables.  Role & Responsibilities: ➢ Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern. ➢ Used Eclipse IDE for code development along with Visual Source Safe (VSS) for managing the code. ➢ Developed and Deployed Stateless and Stateful session Beans, used EJB 3.0 as the ORM mapping tool and worked with the different configuration files. ➢ Wrote Action classes, Action Forms Beans, Validators using Struts Framework, designed and developed different JSP Custom Tags, Struts tags & JSTL tag libraries. ➢ Integrated presentation (JSP), business (EJB) and data access layers (DTO/DAO). ➢ Used Ajax Framework to develop Auto fill functionality to UI Interface. ➢ Generated JPA compatible entity objects using JPA plug-in. ➢ Initiate Ajax requests with jQuery and handle responses in plain text, HTML and XML formats. ➢ Involved in performing core JQueryDom utility functions like inserting, moving and deleting DOM Nodes. ➢ Extensively used entity associations like One-to-many, Many-to-one and Many-to-many. ➢ Wrote Shell Scripts to deployment applications and monitor the health of the system. ➢ Developed WebServices to exchange data between different applications, implemented SOA architecture with WebServices using SOAP and WSDL. ➢ Designed and developed direct live interfaces with multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data real-time. ➢ Design and development Message Handler Service using JAXB for converting objects back and forth. ➢ Designed and developed database trigger and procedures to update the real-time cash balances. ➢ Developed Data Access Objects to access middleware web services as well as Sybase database. ➢ Developed light weight user interfaces to display the live cash balances on web page using HTML, JavaScript, JSP with Servlets and JDBC technologies at backend. ➢ Integrated multiple systems using IBM MQ message queues and XML. ➢ Automate the deployment process using ANT scripts ➢ Used APIs to Schedule and run the batch jobs for data maintenance like to deactivate and purge applications after a certain amount of time ➢ Maintained Batch jobs timings in reference table. ➢ Developed Shell scripts and cronjob to schedule jobs, which receives data from multiple systems and also sends reports to downstream systems.  Environment: UML, OOAD, EJB3.0 , JNDI, Servlets , JSP, JMS, RMI, XML, JDBC,  J2EE, Unix, RAD, WebSphere , LDAP, Agile, Struts Framework, ANT, Rational Rose, Dream Viewer, CVS, SubVersion,  Oracle 9i/10g, Junit, JavaScript, DHTML.
