Software Engineer
Mformation Software Technlogies India Pvt Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka
Smart Customer Interaction (SCI) Project: This project is developed for Operators/Network providers to know more about the network coverage in a particular cell site and the duration of time spent by a device(with SIM) in different communication states ranging from 'Out of Coverage' to 'Voice/Data' Service. If Client/Server Initiated coverage monitoring is enabled for a device, and whenever there is a change in network coverage state, data is collected. The same data is also used to generate coverage reports.  Implemented UI using JSP and Servlets efficiently.  Queries to generate reports to display on UI.  Generated EXPLAIN Plan and analyzed it for query performance.  Reviewed the code with team for its accuracy.  Deployed the product and populated millions of data in DB for functionality and performance testing.  Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) Project: Enterprise mobile device management is a product designed for EMM (Enterprise mobility management) solution that centrally manages and secures all the mobile devices, apps and content which are connected to an Enterprise. It allows for the Enterprise to leverage mobility effectively and use it to grow the business and increase employee productivity.  Actively contributed in design and development phase.  Developed various REST API’s and usage of curl commands for measuring the output of the API.  DDL and DML script.  Machine to Machine (M2M) Project: This project is developed for Operators/Network providers as an add on feature through licensing that allow both wireless and wired systems to communicate with each other. M2M is considered as an integral part of the Internet of Things (IOT) and brings several benefits such as industrial Automation, logistics, smart grid, smart cities etc.  Implemented UI using JSP and Angularjs.  Queries to add a M2M device and updating many fields of the device.  Generated EXPLAIN Plan and analyzed it for query performance.  Automation tasks which would trigger adding of a device automatically.  Developed UI to send existing settings or configurations to devices.  Developed various REST API’s and usage of curl commands for measuring the output of the API.
