Java UI/SQL Developer
Blue Cross Blue Shield - Naperville, IL
BCBS is a leading health insurance company operating and offering healthcare coverage all over United States. It have partnered with federal government to process Medicare fee-for-service claims and payments. It offers a variety of Insurance products to all segments of the population, including large, employer groups, small business and individuals.  Responsibilities: • Captured requirements from Business & Systems Analysts and business users, documenting them as detailed statements and requirements to be used for design and development of code. • Developing a web-based application using Maven Apache Tomcat Server. • Coding with MVC Infra (Propriety Framework) using Java, XML and JavaScript. • Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface. • Integrating the front end UI to the back end using Spring MVC framework. • JQuery to select and manipulate HTML elements and also CSS manipulation. • Developed the Hibernate for handling the database access. • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website • Implemented DAO for data access using Spring ORM with Hibernate • Design, integration, deployment and automation of J2EE Application servers - JBoss, Tomcat, WebSphere (Portal, BPM, MQ, ESB, Application Server, IIIS and Data Stage) and WebLogic Application Server across UNIX, Windows and Linux platforms • Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment and testing of Web and J2EE applications to the above platforms • Used Hibernate to connect with SQL server database to store and fetch data. • Created stored procedures for maintaining MySQL, Analyzed Stored Procedures for Application Developers. • Implementation phase package flow diagram using UML Diagrammer. • Develop new processes to facilitate import and normalization, including data file for counterparties. • Developed Web services (SOAP) to interact with other components. • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally. • Developed different SOAP services and Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and Oracle JDeveloper • Involved in creating and configuring profiles, clusters, nodes, and node agents for WebSphere Application Server. • Worked on data modeling using Erwin data tool. • Work with business stakeholders, application developers, and production teams and across functional units to identify business needs and discuss solution options. • Ensure best practices are applied and integrity of data is maintained through security, documentation, and change management.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML, JSP, UML, JQuery, MS SQL Server 2008, WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, MySQL, Tomcat server, Linux, Unix, SOAP, Windows 7, Microsoft Office 2010, Microsoft Outlook, ERwin, SharePoint, Visual Studios 2008.
