Java Developer
Auxis Inc - Plantation, FL
Provided consultancy service to client CruiseLink. I was part of the development team responsible to develop software Travel Tools. Travel Tools is a multiple tier web based application used by users to track information about their travel plans. The application was targeted for mid-sized travel agents that help them market their products, allow their customers to buy travel packages online and process new orders. It also kept track of order history, transaction details and other useful information. The front end allows the user to look up their travel information and order details.  Responsibilities: * Involved in various SDLC phases like Design, Development and Testing. * Worked in the enhancement of application using Java, JSP, JSTL, Spring and several design pattern like MVC. * Developed hibernate mapping files, implemented DAO's and value objects to retrieve the data using Hibernate. * Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML and JSP's for user interaction. * Created dynamic HTML pages with CSS, used JavaScript, JQuery for client-side validations to create interactive front-end GUI. * Worked on developing Object-Oriented web application module using Core Java. * Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements. * Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering JSP components. * Perform back-end database testing using SQL. * Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes and keeping up with standard of code coverage. * Implemented application logging using log4j framework and accessing log files in case of failures. * Used Eclipse IDE for developing code modules in the development environment. * Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the application. * Agile delivery of software using practices of short iterations, sprints and scrum.  Environment: Java 6, J2EE 5, Tomcat Web Server, XML, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Web Services, Oracle 10g, HTML, Eclipse 3.9, JavaScript, JUnit 4.3, CSS, JQuery, log4j, Agile
