Sr.QA Automation Engineer
Cigna Healthcare - New York, NY
Description: Cigna Healthcare is a company providing customers with benefits, expertise and service that improve the health, wellbeing and productivity. As a BA, I was involved in developing fully automated, real-time claims processing system for complete, on-line mediation of medical, dental, vision, and disability claims and encounters as per HIPAA guidelines. System allowed the efficient and timely management of all relevant data clinical, financial, and administrative throughout the organization enabling the sharing of information between subsystems. Responsibilities:  • Understand the application business logic with Business Requirements Specification documents and functionality of application with Functional Requirements Specification Documents • Involved in preparing the high level Test Plan and developed Test Cases in accordance with the functional specifications • Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology • Support full System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with understanding of various technologies and platforms such SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), • Involved in design and implementation of Selenium Web driver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (Testing). • Performed medical coding testing • Worked with providers and Medicare or Medicaid entities to validate EDI transaction sets or Internet portals. • Handled upward MIS reporting, project work streams, schedules, communication channels, and SDLC. MITA BA tool • Did API Level testing for web services, enhanced the Test harness and developed many Test suites using XML, PERL and PHP, Python. • Perl and Python scripts for scraping files from UNIX servers • Developed test scripts using selenium Web driver, Executed Automated Test Scripts & analyzed  the results • Automated regression test cases using Java and Web driver • Responsible in executing Selenium test scripts on different browsers and checked for compatibility • Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium Web driver. • Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and X Path in Selenium. • Designed UX for the admin tool to manage users, groups, brands, and content, deploy and purge content, and monitor reps. • Included Medicaid and Commercial entities. Projects include claims and enrollment testing as well as NPI and medical coding and ICD-9 EDI testing • Contributed UX designs and key points to pitches and RFPs. • Used QC for executing test sets, collecting test results, Opening Defects and analyzing the data • Established Traceability between the Requirements and the Test cases in Quality Center • Worked closely with build integration team, business analysts and developers in order to perform testing activities as per schedules • Generated Bug Reports and Test case coverage reports for status meeting and also involved in resource planning for test cases coverage • Planned and executed Backend testing using numerous SQL Queries to verify the dataflow from the database • Worked with the business users on User Acceptance Testing by mentoring them on various aspects of testing.  Environment: QC/ALM, UI/UX designer, Selenium IDE, Webdriver,.Net, Java, Java Scripts, Vb script. AGILE , XML Spy, SQL Server , Windows 7, MS Word, MS Excel.
