JAVA/J2EE Portal & SOA Developer
AT&T - Alpharetta, GA
TDC (Technology Delivery Center) Technology Delivery Center is going to be a daily hub for delivering Technology Solution. User will become more efficient through guided experiences that promote Technology Solution reuse and provide quicker access to relevant information. Made up of tools, environments, systems, and reusable assets, the software delivery platform focuses on the people, processes, and tools that enable technology delivery at AT&T. These platform components will be exposed through Technology Delivery Center through the guidance of the Centers of Excellence. Technology Delivery Center Guided Delivery Experiences provide API Consumers and API Providers an experience that engages them systematically by: Guiding them to complete API development activities within the lifecycle only when they are needed   Providing them the information on tool access and reference materials they need for each activity Encouraging collaboration through onscreen access Responsibilities: • Involved in development of JSF Portlets based on JSR 286 • Involved in BPEL Workflow using ActiveVOS Designer • Worked on JAX WS SOAP Services and Restful Services. • Agile development using Scrum • Involved in Development and Implementation of business Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies. • Utilized Log4j logging API for debugging and monitoring purposes. • SVN is used for Software Configuration Management. • Used Oracle 10g Databas and Worked on SQL Queries using Toad • Use of build script using Maven to generate JAR, WAR, EAR files and for integration testing and unit testing. • Deployed the Portal Applications on WebSphere Portal Server 8  and ActiveVOS Workflow Application on  Weblogic server • Coordinated with the QA team during the process of making the code move to staging server and testing the application for the several test cases and defect testing. • Worked on jQuery, AJAX and XHTML, JSP, Sevlets, JDBC while working on Portal Development  Environment: Windows 7, Java1.7, JSP, JSF Portlet , XHTML, RAD 8.5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery,  Maven, AJAX, Websphere Portal Server 8 , Jira , Rally ,  SOAP Services , SoapUI, Jenkins, Toad 10.6 , Log4j, Scrum, BPEL, XPATH, XQuery
