Sr Java Developer
CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI
Project: RxConnect/ RxConnect Central Wizard CVSHealth (Previously known as CVS/Pharmacy) is an integrated pharmacy services provider, combining a United States pharmaceutical services company with a U.S. pharmacy chain. CVS Health provides pharmacy services through its over 7,400 CVS/pharmacy and Longs Drugs stores; its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services; its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, Minute Clinic; and its online pharmacy, CVS.com. The RxConnect software system is built to meet the CVS Store operations needs. It is an online transactional software system; enabling pharmacy to fulfill the needs of prescription filling, drug dispensing and verification activities. The system captures all interactions with the CVS customer and provides functionality to fill the prescription in an easy and efficient manner. The system will support the CVS enterprise organization consisting of multiple pharmacies dispersed across a large geographically area.  Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing. • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' and tested the application in each iteration • Developed Presentation layer using Spring MVC. • Developed Presentation layer using JSP, CSS, JQuery, Apache Tiles and Servlets. • Implemented Screen Navigation using JQuery and Spring MVC • Used Spring frame work AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications. Also used the Spring IOC feature to get hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies. • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1: M /M: M mappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO. • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts. • Used SOAP UI for testing developed Web Services. • Invoking multiple SOAP based Web Services and generating client using JAX-WS. • Implemented  Client-side validations and Server-side validation error messages to UI screens using JQuery • Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application. • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project. • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database. • Worked with WebSphere application server that handles various requests from Client. • Developed test cases using JUnit. Environment: Java, Hibernate 4.0, Spring, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, MVC, J2EE 1.4, StarUML, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere, UML, SOA, JAX-WS, RESTful, SOAP UI, Log4J, SOAP, Oracle 10g, WSDL, JavaScript, AJAX, JIRA and RAD 8.0
