Java/J2EE Developer
Freddie Mac - McLean, VA
Project Description: Account Control Home System (ACHS) is an integrated system that generates and sends automated confirmation number as an acknowledgement to the customer for his payment towards the monthly charges. The confirmation number is sent as a Short Message Service (SMS) to the customer's handset. In case the SMS could not be sent to the hand set, the customer's email-id is retrieved from the database and the confirmation number is sent to it. This module had two interfaces; one can be accessed by the customers through the website and other was available only for internal usage. The other interface is being used by the customer service representatives to access customer info and manually updating the SMS server to resend the confirmation.  Responsibilities: • Involved in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application. • Setting up an environment, configuring an application and deployment in IBM Web Sphere7 Application Server. • Created an AngularJS add on lib that allows component developers to define and bind to W3C Custom Elements (Web Components) from within Angular 1.x.x code. • Involved in developing the JSF/Richfaces pages. • Implemented Spring MVC for designing and implementing the UI Layer for the application. • Developed web pages using JSP Tag Libraries, HTML5, and JQuery. • Worked on development of PF (Policy Fulfillment) application which involves the coding of Java, Spring 3 core for dependency injection, Spring 3 Hibernate for ORM and database as IBM DB2. • Wrote all client side validations using JavaScript. • Developed server-side services using Java (multithreading, collections). • Used Spring IOC to inject Services and their dependencies. • Implemented Spring AOP for implementing the roles throughout the application. • Used Hibernate for mapping java objects to the relational database in .hbm.xml file. • EJB 3.0, JPA is used to interact with Database. • Log4j is used for logging utility. • Designed, developed and implemented document transformation applications using XML tool. • Used DOM parsing methodology for serializing and parsing the XML request and response. • Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using Junit. • Developed application with spring, Web Services with the help of IDE tool STS 3.1.0. • Used SVN as version control system.  Environment: Java, JSP, Spring 3 core, Spring 3 IOC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SVN with subclipse, JUnit, Spring Tool Suite 3.1.0 IDE, IBM Web Sphere 7 application server, IBM DB2 Database.
