Software Developer, Python developer
La Colonia Medical Centers - Miami, FL
I started to work in this company since I came from Cuba in 2013 and I got my work permit. When I started, this company did not have software to manage the company main processes, there was only one used to manage the transportation built using .net, developed by my co-worker. This company was growing so fast that reached a point where they needed to manage all the processes using software in order to keep that growing and improve it. Using the experience I got from my previous company Desoft in Cuba, one of the biggest, I started to implement each of those processes using Scrum. It was hard because everything was a mess, there was not people with all the technical knowledge required to get the requirements per department. I had to plan a lot of meetings with the departments heads and different employees in order to get all the requirements to be implemented on each iteration. I was doing every step of the software development by myself (I am not a GURU), really a great challenge. In order to finish the different modules in a short period of time, I decided to use the ERP System Odoo, AKA Openerp. This open source software, developed by a Belgium company , uses a framework(Open-object), developed by the same company. This framework was built using the model MVC where they used Jquery, Javascript, XML, Qweb to implement the view layer. They used Python (my preferred programming language) on the controller, and on the model, they used PostgreSQL and an ORM created by themselves using Python. And as plus, I was working the first year and a half as IT too, yes I know, it sounds insane. Configuring printers, scanners, computers, networking, I barely had time to develop and improve myself. Hopefully they understood how important the software is for a company.  Modules developed:  Referral Appointments - Module to manage all the referral appointments related to patients. The company does not has all the required specialists. Sometimes the internal doctors need a second opinion from an external specialist. It really was a chaos on those times because, the referral department had to manage the whole process using excel, good software but not intended for these purposes. I designed and developed, in collaboration with the current department, a module capable of manage the whole process from the beginning to the end. The customer services employees were able to handle the calls in regard of these kind of appointments. Previously they had to call the employees of the Referral Department in order to solve an issue regarding a patient, and since it is very difficult to share information using excel, employees were struggling, because they had to stop what were they doing in order to give the required information. It took me 2 months to finish this module. After designing and creating the business model, I implemented the module in 2 iterations, and a 3 rd iteration to deploy and test. It was a challenge but it was super good to know that this module improved a lot the company processes In this area, and the employees were able to improve their productivity. I keep supporting this module and adding new stuff everyday.  Social Services - Module to manage all the process related to the new patients. The company follows a process where the Social Department has to manage different types of appointments regarding to patient's health insurances. In order to a person become a patient, this has to accomplish certain requirements, such as age, years living in the United States, health insurances. This department was working just using paper and excel. This module was a success because, the employees were able to gather different types of information, such as, amount of patients dis-enrolling, persons nearest to accomplish the requirements, and others. At the beginning I decided to add a  feature to this module, in order to manage outgoing calls to be executed in the future,department's employees were able of schedule calls, but we decided to create a module for customer services later on. The patient follows a process where appointments and calls can be added. At the end of the process, this potential patient is converted as a current patient. Everything was designed to only have a patient's database (for patients and potential patients), and just change the statuses for each process step. Developing time, 2 months, 3 iterations after design.  OTC Services (Over the Counter Medications) - Module to manage the delivery of OTC (Over the Counter medications). The company as I explained in the two previous points, was struggling on this process. Everything was flowing through paper and the telephone, lot of errors, complaints, etc... After receiving the orders with the medications at the different facilities, they had to be sent to the headquarters to be processed, and in order to know the status of the orders, the facilities had to call the OTC department, and then the employees from that department had to be searching on different boxes or they had to call the insurance company, super inaccurate. After some meetings with the department heads, department employees and company heads, we decided to create a process where after receiving an order, the same had to be scanned and uploaded to the patient as a digital order, start the process and complete the required information per status. This was challenging, the process is long, from the point where the order with the desired medications is received to the point where the medications are delivered to the patient. Every step in this process is very important, and different departments participate in this process. Now customer services does not have to be calling this department when they receive a call from a patient regarding an issue, because, every employee with the right access rights is capable of access to the desired information regarding that patient. This took me 3 weeks to design and 2 months to develop, split on 4 iterations, and one week of deployment and testing. I keep supporting, fixing bugs and adding tiny features to this module. We are planning to improve the process , in order to do this we are planning to create a digital sheet, and we want to integrate the module with USPS for the orders that has to be delivered at home by daily mail in order to keep track of the medications after leaving the facilities.  Customer Services - As each department on this company, customer service was struggling. The Customer Services department on any company that offers services, is one of the most important departments, i name it, the firewall department. They were managing all the information got from calls just using paper, what a chaos, complaints, information requested, services requested, messages, everything through paper, the employees had to handle a lot of work. We created a module where, every type of call can be registered. We created 2 main types of calls, outgoing calls and incoming. It was a complete success, now each time the facilities want to know some information related to calls, they do not has to call customer services, they just has to check the system, because the employees from customer services are now very productive and they detail every bit of information on each call. It took me 2 weeks to design and 1 month and a half to develop, two weeks for deployment and testing. I keep giving support, in order to fix bugs and add new features  Human resources - Customized the HR module from Odoo and adapted to the company process. Actually we are planning to add time-sheets, and create new features to improve this important module.  Optometry services - Module to manage all the process of lens delivery.  Under development - Developing a module to help the personnel from Coding and billing to be more productive.  Future developments - Module to manage costs per patient, costs per facility - Install the Odoo module Fleet to manage all the costs of the vehicle fleet. - Install Odoo modules Accounting, Warehouse.
