Sr Java Developer
Pathfinder Development - Chicago, IL
Project Description: Broker Portal is a web application that offers critical deal-making information to the point-of-sale in real-time so that the broker network can quickly say "YES" to borrowers with confidence and accuracy at the point-of-sale on the first time. The Broker Portal works in conjunction with other applications to instantly deliver product eligibility, up-to-date products & pricing, and automated underwriting approvals to the point-of-sale.  Responsibilities: • Followed agile methodology in delivering the work. • Collaborated on design specification reviews together with Business Analysts. • Involved in gathering business requirement and translated into high level design of the application. •  Used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on TOMCAT server. • Developed the business layer using spring boot. • Implemented code for Web services using Restful. • Implemented MyBatis to interact with Oracle 11gdatabase. •  Implemented procedures, packages, triggers, and different Joins to retrieve the data base using PL/SQL, SQL scripts. • Used Maven for build creation and to push onto various environments. •  Used JUnit for extensive functional and unit testing code. • Used SVN version controlling to maintain versions.. •  Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for application development. •  Involved in all phases of software application i.e Analysis, Design, Planning, Coding, Testing, Use case documents, high level and detailed design documents. •  Developed web pages using HTML & Used Firebug for browser side debugging. • JavaScript and JQuery functions for all Client side Validations. •  Experience with Maven build and deployment process. • Used GIT repository as Version Control. •  Developed the business layer using spring beans. •  Interfaced with Oracle back-end using Hibernate framework • Used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on TOMCAT server. •  Created various UML Diagram. •  Wrote SQL queries of differing complexities for the application. Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored procedures, User Functions using PL/SQL, SQL Developer.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pagesstandard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa.
