CLOUD ENGINEER
PYTHON
ADV SOLUTIONS Python and Cloud development engineer working on multiple client projects:  Dev Stack Redesign Project Implemented DevOps platform into a legacy Ruby on Rails App. Added RabbitMQ and changed data store to ModgoDB. Developed locally using Vagrant and Docker with github integration, removed the SVN requirement. • Moved to latest version of Ubuntu running AWS • Changed Code migration using Jenkins and Puppet • Added logging with Logstash and Nagios • Python Scripting for data migration from legacy SQL app  VMWare/Openstack API project Python app which accessed the OpenStack API to analyze performance of over 10000 servers hosted across multiple platforms: AWS, VMware, vCloud. • Created single-point view access to general and detail server performances • Allowed users to define areas of focus and analysis • Ability to self define dashboards and reports using a simple CMS system from the data gathered.  Private Cloud Formation Project Worked on a team of 8 developer and 7 DevOps to create a Private cloud for large cloud provider. Worked on changes to Openstack and AWS to accommodate large scale data center deployment. • Enhanced installation process for new data centers • Developed Python Scripts to manage the application library • Part designer of full virtualization of infrastructure • Liaison between DevOps and Infrastructure teams  Chef to Puppet Conversion Conversion of 300+ Chef Recipes and Cookbooks to Puppet Manifests and Puppet modules. • Automated the Conversion process • Used Puppet Rspec for testing • Provided documentation for DevOps and Network Engineering Teams  SaltStack Implementation and Testing  Project Entailed setting up Saltstack to run with AWS and Google Cloud. Developed, documented and implemented test scripts which:  • Configured networks, firewalls, load balancers •  Updated software in Virtual Instances •  Monitored virtual instances  Amazon/AWS Cloud System Analysis Python app which analyzed CI server activity and response times, code deployment and environment migrations done in Amazon AWS. • Quick access to Amazon API • Rendered Dashboard which provided important milestone Metrics • Reduced the release cycle overhead by half  Puppet to SaltStack Conversion Converted close to 3500 lines of Puppet Code to SaltStack using own conversion utility written in Python. • Enhanced Load Balancer and Monitoring instances • Increased speed for creating new VMs  Federation with Node JS, oAUTH, and Ping Federate Implementation of Node JS based authentication service for Fortune 500 using Ping Federate and oAUTH. • Direct access to Federation client for external users • Set up rules and policies with a Node JS/Python back end • Implemented single-sign on for multiple virtual servers and over 100 different applications  Multi-Site Financial System Interview, Process Redesign and Re-engineering for a distributed financial capture and transactional system. • Eliminated Manual data double entry and duplication • Reduced licensing costs for current ERP and database • Designed a platform that could be managed totally online  Ad Campaign Analysis Portal Portal used to maintain history of keyword usage and Ad results in multiple PPC campaigns. Analysis of similar & competitor ads against benchmarks. • Increased PPC response rate by 30% • Increased conversion by 20% • Reduce time to analyze campaigns  Real Estate Folio Search Web portal w/mongo DB Developed Folio search portal using Python, Django, MongoDB and Elastic search. Locate information about properties and valuation in public records. • Quick turnaround of search result of images and text • Created RestFul API feed from public data to application • Removed redundancy in data for faster query downloads • Allowed for Multiple Views of the data in grid, block, line formats  Revenue Matrix Dashboard System Wrote process spec for an on-demand revenue analysis dashboard for management team. Dashboard worked as a web link and mobile application.  Worked with IT team to create a large SQL back end of summary revenue tables: • Eliminated having to run extensive /long reports • Provided data availability from anywhere • Provided immediate decision tools for management  Training Video Repository Dynamic portal for a large multinational with over 100,000 employees. The system was designed for managers and users to create, manage, edit and share video content across mobile and web platforms. Content included in-house created videos and external sources. • Increased education participation • Enhanced search process by over 50% for locating meaningful material • Replaced legacy system which required large amounts of in-house servers  Content Management System Transformation A cooperative of advertising and marketing firms in Brazil and SA to manage translation of English-language videos and stream in multiple platforms. Ability to mix and match cost and bidding scenarios. • Created new revenue model for the group • Enhanced working relationship between member companies • Increased library from 20k to over 300k videos
