Senior Mobile ANALYST
Here - Carlsbad, CA
Here map the world's largest community-based traffic and navigation app. Trapster was navigation social networking mobile application and website, provided for free, that maps out and alerts users in real time to the presence of live police speed traps, traffic, red light cameras, speed cameras, and areas where police often hide. Further, it allows users to record trip data and share it via the Trapster's moblie GPS app currently supports the operating systems Android, iOS, BlackBerry OS, Windows Mobile, webOS, S60, and unlocked Java ME phones with GPS. In addition to these mobile phones, Trapster has support for both Garmin and TomTomnavigation units Responsibilities •    Participating in the requirements analysis and design meetings with DEV, BIZ team for Review and facilitate in requirement freezing. •    Followed Agile/Scrum Process throughout the SDLC. Participated in testing mobile standalone game and social mobile web based games. •    Participated in meetings with QA and developer team members to discuss new features and functionalities. •    Planning all the testing activities (Test Planning, Test Estimation and scheduling of QA activities, Test Strategy, Test Case Design, Requirements Traceability matrix, Review, execution and Reports) •    Tested the UI of the end product on mobile, PC, Android and Apple platforms to ensure that language translation and currency conversions were displaying as required. •    Created the Scripts for Web Services to test using HP Service Test 9.5, SOAP UI. •    Requested different versions of iOS, Android and Blackberry mobile device •    Hands-on experience with automation tools(Selenium-webdriver, Calabash iOS (Calabash is cross-platform, supporting Android and iOS native apps.), Appium, Monkey Talk) •    Tested many of the Platform applications that processed the requests from game applications. •    Was involved in developing web applications using Python Classes in MVC framework and UI components in DHTML, JavaScript, CSS and XML. •    Created test strategy, executed test cases for web-UI (various browsers) with in MS Office for customers/orders and invoices HTML pages •    Followed project milestones and be responsible to create test data and executes test scripts and defining test plans from functional, regression and performance testing through acceptance for Web Services/APIs (SOAPUI). •    Developed and automated Web Services API testing using SoapUI frameworks •    Worked with java based applications and C++ simultaneously. •    Planning and execution of Installation Testing, Smoke Testing, Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, usability testing, Compatibility Testing, Performance Testing and security testing. •    Executing the test cases (manual and automated) and reporting the bugs in Mingle and QC/ALM. •    Mentoring and Monitoring the QA Team, troubleshooting any technical problems. •    Performed browser compatibility and configuration testing on various operating systems such as Blackberry OS, Android OS, iOS etc. •    Collaborating with development team and project managers in test execution and communicating all the issues. •    Generating project status reports/metrics and updating project plans and Tracking them. •    Coordinating and leading the reviews and inspections and follow up on ongoing test activities. •    Conducting QA status/Defect triage conference calls with US clients and reporting the status to QA Manager. •    Involving in interviewing the new candidates for the project and providing training and mentoring support on all QA activities. •    Publishing the application in production for all platforms (Android, BlackBerry). Environment: Oracle 10G, Java, Calabash, Asp.net, Quality Center, Python, Quick Test Pro, HTML, UNIX, Web logic, Emulator like Device Anywhere, perfecto mobile, Android SDK, Windows Mobile SDK, IOS, Blackberry OS, Android OS
