Java Architect
Global Bank - Dallas, TX
Responsibilities: ❖ Designed and implemented Service Oriented Architecture, enterprise service bus, web applications, databases, data warehouses, business rules. ❖ Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application. ❖ Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL. ❖ Architected and developed several SOAP  based web services build on the CFX framework. ❖ Architected a Web 2.0 dynamic script loader framework to facility dynamic loading and AJAX functionality while greatly reducing the complexity of maintaining numerous scripts on a single page. ❖ Responsible for Design and Architecture of J2EE application. ❖ Developed technical solutions to build Java architectural framework. ❖ Architectured & Designed the Restful web services and developed core component layers like xml validation, core service layer, solr search and transformation components ❖ Recommended new technologies and tools to support Java architecture. ❖ Design and architectural decisions for a multi-tier reusable service based J2EE application. ❖ Architected mainframe modernization solutions using SOA/web services, middleware integration technologies and ESB based on JAVA/J2EE. ❖ Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery. ❖ Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular.js framework. ❖ Involved actively in designing web page using HTML, Backbone, AnjularJS, JQuery, Javascript, Bootsrap and CSS. ❖ Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and CustomTag Libraries, JS, CSS, JQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application. ❖ Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design. ❖ Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design. ❖ Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data ❖ Developed and deployed EJBs, Servlets and JSPs on IBM Websphere Server. ❖ Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the web component of the application. ❖ Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache. ❖ Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control. ❖ Designed, automated and lead Enterprise level high volume Java and WebLogic upgrades and migration effort. ❖ Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Git. ❖ Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML. ❖ Template development for a Java based search platform using JSP/JSTL. ❖ Develop the web application using Spring, JSP, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript and implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like Spring, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object). ❖ Implemented and customized Returns web services using JAX-WS with EJB. ❖ Implemented applications with Scala along with Akka and Play framework. ❖ Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Developed complex SQL queries for reports. ❖ Used SOAP protocol, JAX-WS and Apache CXF in development of web services. ❖ Using Web Logic Application Server as an application server and Eclipse as IDE. ❖ Implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies. ❖ Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic. ❖ Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies. ❖ Provides support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA. ❖ Extensively used the BAL constructs to handle collections in ILOG. Worked with large data sets in ILOG.  Technologies: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSF, ANT, Hibernate, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Coherence, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), JUnitJSP, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS3, Ajax, HTML5, Oracle, CRUD, SQL, EJB, Scala, , Agile, UML, PL/ SQL, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Servlet, Maven, Itext, Jira, Web 2.0, SOA, Jasper Report, ILOG.
