Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
General Electric - Fairfield, CT
Responsibilities: • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development. • Develop/program new functionality and features in line with functional specifications and business requirements. • Provide recommendations to management concerning issues of programmer productivity and software development management. • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework. • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and Data Access Objects (DAOs). • Implement Hibernate for data persistence and management. • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses. • Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views. • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, JQuery and JavaScript. • Involve in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes. • Conduct system analysis and development, with limited support from professional staff, to keep our systems current with changing technologies. • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using REST. • Analyze, design, development of software systems to form a basis for the solution of information processing problems. • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of programs presenting challenges and design solutions to overcome such. • Responsible for developments with clients and third parties in ensuring and meeting structural requirements. • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging(database) and logging using Spring AOP • Used ANT scripts for automated deployment • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping • Exported web services using JAX-WS Spring support. Extensive experience in production support. • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC. • Automation of deployment and enhancement of web services testing framework primarily Jbehave. • Involved to work CA IDM web service interface is to allowed third party applications. • Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file. • Enhanced database application for better data recovery connecting to Q/kdb database. • Conduct functional and performance testing. • Respond promptly and professionally to bug reports.  Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, JPA, Web Services, REST, WSDL, XML, JAXB, Web Sphere Server 7.0, DB Visualize, Logging, Ant.
