Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Cerner - Kansas City, MO
Responsibilities: • Involved in gathering requirements from business users, stake holders. • Documented the business requirements and developed flow diagrams. • Analysis of requirements including impact analysis on existing systems. • Responsible in analyzing requirement, Technical Architecture document, Business Requirements Document, Technical Design Document , Functional Specification Document and Impact analysis document Involved in system design, enterprise application development using object oriented analysis and design. • Followed Agile and Scrum methodology for developing business application. • Used Hybris for development in Agile environment using Scrum methodology. • Created high-level and low-level design documents represent the data flow, components, impacted services, context diagrams and sequence diagram. • Used SDLC for development of applications and software. • Recommended different  design patterns like façade, business delegate , factory, proxy and Singleton during development phase • Developed UI pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, JSTL jQuery data tables, display tags. • Developed user interface on Spring 4.0 Framework MVC design pattern. • Created various Action Classes which route requests to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean components and service the request. • Used JSON to store the data in an ordered manner in the place of XML based on requirement. • Used JAXB to map java classes to XML representations. • Configured the Spring Framework by providing the mappings for the Controller classes, Form Beans in the Spring configuration file Spring.xml. • Used Thread Dumps to parse log files. • Configured Spring custom formatters and converters to convert data types to different formats. • Configured Spring AOP with web flow for business and system logging. • Interacted with back end databases like Oracle and Sybase and wrote several PL/SQL procedures to generate the reports. • Involved in consuming and producing Web Services by making using of REST, WSDL and SOAP to communicate with CMS and third party agencies etc. • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for asynchronous exchange of information between systems. • Developed deployment process using Maven. • Used JBOSS EAP 6.3 for deployment and also for replication between the cluster nodes. • Implemented IPS, DLP features on firewall for added security purpose. • Involved in implementing JUnit Test Cases. • Used SVN version controlling to maintain project versions • Worked in Production Support to resolve tickets.  Environment: Eclipse, PERL, JBOSS EAP 6.3 Application Server,  Web services (SOAP & REST), Hybris, Spring 4.0, JMS, SQL, PL/SQL, JAXB, XML, XSD, XSLT,  JSP, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Shell Scripting, Oracle 11g, LINUX, SVN, Maven, SOAP UI.
