Java Developer
Hewlett-Packard (HP)
Description: Hewlett-Packard develops and provides a wide variety of hardware components as well as software and related services to consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. It specializes in developing and manufacturing computing, data storage, and networking hardware, designing software and delivering services. Major product lines include personal computing devices, enterprise and industry standard servers, related storage devices, networking products, software and a diverse range of printers and other imaging products.  Responsibilities: • Involved in project VcMigrationManager which is responsible to migrate C7000 Enclosure to OneView Appliance. • Developed a Java/J2EE based Web Application with complete spring suite, implementing Spring MVC and other spring modules. • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection also used XML configuration. • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier that used spring's Bean Factory for initializing services. • Experience in working with ORM tools like Hibernate and spring Jdbc. • Participated in High-level design of the application by applying the OOP concepts and Java Design. • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as DAO, Business Delegate, View Helper, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Session Façade, Singleton and Model View Controller and handle Multithreading. • Used Restful services to make operations like Put, Get, Post, Delete, Patch to do the Migration, Validation, Report finding, Remove  enclosure from Appliance etc. • Consumed Restful web service to call the different resources to migrate C7000 Enclosure. • Complete the user stories From Rally in specified sprint. • Verify Rest-API documentation with respective any change in code. • Validate, Migrate, Remove enclosures using Rest Client. • Created C7000 simulator configuration with required hardware set up and deploy on VM. • Followed agile Methodology and participated in daily scrum meetings. • Participating in development planning, scheduling and software design. • Implement new features, enhancements and unit test. • Participate in the inspection process for investigations, designs and implementations of key features. • Work closely with other engineers on new features and bug fixes. • Experience with development tools like Eclipse, Git, Gerritt, and Maven.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate Web Services, REST, Jersey, XML, XSLT, Git, Gerrit, Rally, Quix, Python, putty,  log4j, SVN, JMS, ANT, Maven, Linux, Windows, Sub version, MDB,  Eclipse, Log4j, PostgreSQL.
