Sr. Software QA Tester
METRO PCS COMMUNICATION - New York, NY
RESPOSIBILITIES: * Work with Business Analysts and Developers to review, evaluate and derive requirements for testability and provided feedback to define functionalities, test scenarios and to ensure the test requirements are correct. * Provides input to staff involved in writing and updating technical documentation such as user manuals, system documentation, and training materials. * Experience working in QA Methodologies (Waterfall, Iterative, Agile). * Developed and implemented all kinds of documents (Test plan, test scenarios, test cases, test scripts, defect analysis report, RTM). * Perform Back-End Tests, Regression Tests, Ad-Hoc Tests, End to End Tests, Boundary Tests, GUI Tests, Positive and Negative Tests for the Application under Test (AUT). * Create and execute Test Cases for some of the modules of the application under test (AUT) using ALM. * Knowledge on various automation tools: UFT/QTP, SOAP UI. * Experience writing Descriptive programming using UFT/QTP tool. * Responsible for defect tracking and management metrics, defects are logged and change requests are submitted using ALM. * Generate Test Analysis Reports and Graphs using QC/ALM. * Develop test scripts for Functional testing, System testing, Regression testing and Integration testing using Quick Test Pro (QTP). * Enhance the scripts by creating Actions, Checkpoints, Synchronization points, and data driven test and modular test in QTP. * Involve developing VB Scripts User-defined function to perform the Data Driven Testing using Quick Test Pro (QTP). * Used SQL and used SQL developer tool as an analyzer tool for Backend testing. * Perform User Acceptance Testing and provide training to the end users about the new application. * Involve in the team meetings with representatives from Development, Database Management, Configuration Management, and Requirements Management to identify and correct defects. * Troubleshoots complex problems and provides customer support for software operating systems and application issues. * Prepares reports on analyses, findings, and project progress.
