Sr. Java Developer
UnitedHealth Group - Basking Ridge, NJ
Responsibilities: • Interacted with the client business analysts, System analysts and functional teams to review and understand the requirements. • Created analysis and mapping documentation also developed technical design, implementation and migration specifications. • Developed the application using Spring Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern. • Used CXF Servlet to setup web.xml and provide XML Configuration of services. • Worked on Slf4j and Log4j to record and save logging events. • Involved in configuring Elastic Search to access database and retrieve data from the database. • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL to validate the XML Messages coming from SOAP Based Web Services JAX WS. • Performed mapping on IIB tool to display results to Consumer application. • Communicated with other Health Care info by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL JAX-B. • Consumed SOAP based web Services on IIB tool. • Implemented automated Test-Suite for Layer 7 integrated WebServices. • Implemented SOA architecture using SOAP web services by JAX-WS • Created WSDL and WADL as a start points to develop an application. • Developed RESTFUL web services on JBoss IDE using Spring Framework. • Consumed RESTFUL web services on IIB tool to display results on consumer application. • Used Fortify static code Analyzer. • Used JBoss IDE with integrated server for designing, coding and developing applications. • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application. • Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation. • Developed user interface using CXF servlet, Spring and jax-ws tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. • Tested Rest and Soap based application on SOAP UI Testing Tool. • Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (SOAP, Restful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC), SOA (Service oriented architecture). • Used Spring-IOC concepts and Spring MVC architecture for developing the application. • Deployed application on JBoss Application Server. • Implemented various functions in Unix Shell Scripts for running the batch jobs on the UNIX environments. • Created the Maven build script which provides the functionality to auto build and package the BAR file which is workable and deployable. Environment: Spring AOP, Spring IOC, CXF servlet, JUnit, Elastic Search, Rest and Soap based Web Services, SoapUI, Kibana, SVN, JBoss, Maven, slf4j, Fortify, Data Lake, Unix, IIB tool.
