Software Developer
JPMC IB Trading Account Data Maintenance - Newark, DE
Develop and maintain, a web service application designed to provide a straight through processing for account setup and maintenance from workflow systems; REST based web application to provide account reference data on demand basis;  a middle ware component to transmit XML messages of account reference data to settlement systems for handling trade settlements and reporting purposes.  Responsibilities: ● Participate with Functional Requirement team to understand requirement and produce technical specifications. ● Extensively work on persistence tier and distribution tier using Mule ESB REST (JAX-RS), JAVA, J2EE, EJB, spring, JMS and iBATIS/hibernate frameworks. ● Involve in design, analysis and architectural meetings Created Architecture Diagrams, and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio. ● Follow agile software development practices like paired programming, test driven development and behavior driven development. ● Perform transition from regular waterfall development model to Agile - Scrum framework. ● Develop use case diagrams, class diagrams, model database schema and mapping between relational database tables and object oriented java objects using Hibernate/iBATIS. ● Configured Spring AOP framework to apply Logging, JDBC, XSLT and ORM module. ● Involved in design and development of RESTful (JAX-RS) web services. ● Use of Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development. ● Worked on tools like Microsoft VISIO, HP Quality and JIRA for bug tracking. ● Strong experience in development, and testing phases of software development life cycle. ● Perform the XML schema validations JAXP framework. ● Experience in XML, XSLT and JAXB framework for XML to Object and vice versa transformations. ● Involve in EOD process, create stored procedures in Sybase, Oracle, setup Cron and Control-m Jobs and written .shell scripts in Linux environment ● Setup a process and guidelines for Team building, Quality Analysis, Code Review, coding standards, code simplicity and reduce code complexity. ● Involved in Implementation of Messaging layer to transmit XML messages to MQ clients. ● Developed scripts to build and deploy jar and war applications using ANT and MAVEN build tools. ● Automation of script to build and deploy using Hudson and Jenkins. Pacaking applications using customized tools and working with ".rpm" and ".msi" files. ● Created factory classes to route search based service request using input parameter via RESTful web service. ● Developed POJOs for Data Model defined for account reference data and incorporated scripts to use XJC utility for auto generating POJOs from XSD files. ● Design and Coding for Async based Message processing Java, JMS, AMQ and WMQ. ● Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing. ● Involved in building and deployment of application in Linux environment. ● Involved in the design, coding, deployment and maintenance of the project. ● Involved in multisite coordination and handled 10 Member delivery team. ● Design of normalized and de-normalized versions of table DDLs. ● Business object universe development in 4.1. ● Data Masking for UAT/SIT environments using informatica 9.0 tool.  Environments: UNIX, LINUX, WINDOWS 2003/XP , Java, J2EE, C, C++, XML, IBML, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-RS(REST), iBATIS, Hibernate,  Mule ESB, JMS, Spring, Quartz, JDBC, log4j, HTTP, Apache, Tomcat, AM Qpid, WMQ Client, J-Unit, Fitnesse, T-SQL, PL-SQL, Sybase DDL and DML, Sybase Replication, Direct Connect, FTP, SFTP, SSL, ANT, MAVEN, Hudson, Jenkins, Shell Scripting, Scheduling (CRON, CONTROL-m), Microsoft Project Plan, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Office and Excel VBA Macro, Informatica, Oracle 11g, Business Objects 4.1.
