QA Technical Lead
SSS and Data
Technical Environment: Informatica 9.5, Oracle, Visual Studio 2012, C#.NET 3.5/4.0, ASP.NET, TFS 2012 (Agile scrum) Description (SSS): Single sign-on can be used to authenticate and manage users in a multi-user, multi-repository environment and to store and retrieve the credentials that are used for logging into various content and workflow repositories. Applications can use the single sign-on system to provide users with seamless access to content that is stored and managed in disparate systems without requiring the user to log on multiple times. It's an isapi dll running on IIS. The programming interfaces for SSS are XML over HTTP, C++ classes and COM Objects. Description (data loading and integration): Our client is a leading financial and credit Report Company that offers a wide range of products such as I9, Employee services and loads all the employer details including w2 tax services. The main objective of this project is to support the Production environment and handle the service request changes. All code changes and fixes will be dynamic to meet the production requirements. The entire ETL process consists of source systems, staging area, Data warehouse and Data mart. Responsibilities: • Led the QA Team (13 members) in developing test strategies and plans, estimation, cost, time, resource allocation and feasibility study of the system and the resource of the project and collect the metrics from the team and directly reporting to the customer. • Managing offshore/Onsite project management for multiple projects with different technologies such as Informatica, C#, managed C++ and Oracle. • Understand in-depth the customer's business & priorities; identify and deliver value added services to help meet customer's goal. • Collaborate with developers at the onsite and subject matter experts to establish the technical vision and analyze tradeoffs between usability and performance needs. • Responsible for creation of project plan, defining QA tasks to be done and estimating times for those tasks. • Assist Quality Assurance team in preparing test cases and test plans; assist the development team in post implementation team in post implementation support and perform estimation and planning on future enhancements. • Executed systems and data quality testing to ensure all development deliverables are production ready. • Experience in design/develope automation script using selenium and coded UI framework. • Experience in developing selenium page objects to test all the pages in Risk Based Authentication (RBA) application. • Performing test data set-up in XML for testing and update test data based on the requirements. •  Validating data from different database tables and executing the source queries from workflows. • Working with the development team to create a suite of test data (both input files and expected results) that fully exercises data validation • Conducting/participating Sprint review and retrospective meeting with offshore/onshore team on end of every sprint • Attending sprint planning and backlog grooming meeting with clients to define requirements for the sprint/future work. • Communicated with business customers to discuss the issues and requirements. • Reporting defects in Mercury Quality center/JIRA and generating reports for the daily status meetings • Coordination of system/Integration/UAT testing with other teams involved in project and review of test strategy • Conducting in weekly status meetings, and conducting internal and external reviews as well as formal walk through among various teams and documenting the proceedings.
