Senior Java Developer
StateStreet - Boston, MA
Location: Boston, MA Role: Senior Java Developer Team Size: 4  Project Summary: GTH (Global Transaction Hub) is a robust, scalable, light-weight and cloud compatible Enterprise Service Bus framework for SSGM that includes a Self-Service Portal for monitoring and managing data transmissions between applications. This project is indented to leverage the existing technologies solutions to be integrated with Enterprise Service Bus (ESB). ESB provides the Enterprise networks commonly deploy disparate applications, platforms, and business processes that need to communicate or exchange data with each other. The applications, platforms and processes have non-compatible data formats and non-compatible communications protocols  Responsibilities: •  Involved in all the stages of the SDLC of this project which include Requirements Gather, Requirement Analysis,  Design, Development, Testing and Production Support Involved in all the stages of the SDLC of this project • Developed class diagrams, sequence diagrams. • Developed complex reusable components using GWT. • Involved in designing the presentation layer using GWT  and HTML • Extensively worked on business and data base layer using the Spring, and Apache Camel frameworks • Developed code to invoke WebService call and used subsequent data returned. • Developed application with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services and Web Service clients. • Involved in creating various reusable Helper and Utility classes which are used across all the modules of the application. • Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations. • Contribution in code re factoring, code optimization. • Developed JUnit Test Cases for Code unit test. • Implemented Loggers by using Log4j and Maven for build scripts.  Environment: Core JAVA  1.6, GWT 2.4,  GWTEXT, Apache Camel,Fuse, Spring , Jaxb, Active Mq, IBM MQ, Servicemix, Jmx, OSGI, Servlets, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, HTML, Fuse, Maven, Jaxb, Rest WebService , JMX, JMS, CXF, Log4j, Eclipse Galileo 3.x. SVN,  junit
