Java Developer
Juniper Networks - Columbus, OH
Subscription management services for large service provider customers. Subscription management involves aggregating data from many systems through OSS/BSS integration. This platform provides reporting tools for the service provider to track subscriber data. It also provides the ability to react to billing events and schedule changes to subscribers' levels of service.  Responsibilities: • Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project. • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework. • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and jQuery. • Developed presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface. • Worked on J2EE frameworks like spring and Struts for developing industry standard web applications. • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS. • Involved in configuration of Spring MVC and Integration with Hibernate. • Used Spring MVC framework for design and development of web application • Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using spring. • Developed Controllers and Services classes that support spring framework. • Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the jQuery javascript. • Involved in spring, Hibernate & JPA integration for the entire system. • Extensive use of HTML5 with AngularJS, JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with Java script for client side validation. • Involved in developing Static and Dynamic pages using JSP and Servlets. • The front-end JSP pages were developed using the Struts framework and were hosted in a J2EE environment on an Apache Tomcat Server. • Involved in the application involving Oracle, JAXB, web service Java • Involved in development of SOAP web services using Apache Axis to extract data from databases. • Built web-based applications using Spring MVC Architecture suitable for Apache Axis framework. • Used RESTful web services to expose certain functionalities of the application. • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance and used Angular JS. • Developed the data layer using Hibernate Persistence Framework. Created Hibernate mapping files and Hibernate configuration files for individual modules. • Involved in creating Controller using spring frame work and writing JSP. • Validated Web service response using SOAP UI. • Implemented object/relational persistence and query service using Hibernate. • Used JSON, JQuery, and Ajax for updating the web pages. • Involved development of front-end components using JSP, JavaScript, and Java. • Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services. • Used JPA, Hibernate combination to access data from ORACLE database using POJOs for coding simplicity. • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI • Generated POJO classes to map to the tables in the database using the JPA-Hibernate integration. • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Oracle, Angular JS, Jboss, Ant, CSS, HTML5, Oracle10g, Eclipse, JSP, JavaScript,  Apache Axis, SOAP web services.
