Sr. Java/J2ee Programmer Analyst
PG&E- Pacific Gas and Electric Company - San Ramon, CA
PG&E, Pacific Gas and Electric Company incorporated in California in 1905, one of the largest combination natural gas and electric utilities in the United States. MYE Digital Operations team is responsible for develops and maintains CFS Online integrated responsive Web & Mobile applications across the multiple devices to PG&E  such as My Energy, Billing Presentment and Payment, EUM,  Start /Stop & Transfer services,  Online Rate Enrolment ,e-Rebates, CARE-FERA, Demand Response, First Responder, Outages applications.  Responsibilities: •    Managing  MYE Releases following PG&E Development Methodology (RUP based) , Create use cases, coordinate build and testing across Web Portals, Mobile, BPM and Database teams, maintain traceability, Identify critical path, risks and dependencies. •    Followed Agile/SCRUM methodology with intermediate sprint releases. Used JIRA for maintain the task and the story. •    Understand functional requirements and business implementation flows and participate in cross-functional design & review discussions, document design specifications. •    Designed, developed Middleware Components using Web Logic Application Server, persistence registration object, request entry handling (controller) object, concurrency object, transaction object & implementing all the Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  •    Used WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAXB, REST, JSON, XML technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  •    Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework. •    Migrated & Developed the PGE Customer facing applications & self-service Web Pages  with responsive web frameworks  using Spring MVC , Rest & JSON implementation with Marionette Backbone  framework with  bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XML  and  MV* frameworks leveraged by both web and mobile applications in different browser and devices.  •    Followed SOA Design and Architecture to develop REST Web service, generated and consume the services from Kubra & CC&B modules and implemented the MVC Framework to make single page app for the responsive MYE CFS applications. •    Used Maven & Jenkin build & deployment tools for configuring and deploying of the applications in all the servers across the environments. •    Designed generic database Connection Pooling with Spring JDBC using Oracle and involved in the SQL query optimization. •    Involved the EUM, Account, Bill Pay applications support & enhance using Web Logic Portal Framework with Spring MVC and Beehive Net UI page flows and Web Services. •    Support System integration testing (SIT) /UAT of different modules, promoting code to different environments like Dev, QA/UAT/Production.  Environment:    JAVA /J2EE , Spring framework, Oracle WebLogic Portals , Spring 3.0+ , MVC,  Eclipse 3.x,  Spring Source Tools Suite, Marionette  framework , Backbone , SOAP, WSDL ,  XML , SOA, SOAP/ REST-web service, Hibernate 3.0, JSON, HTML, jQuery1.7+,JavaScript, ANT1.X, Log4J 1.X, LDAP & Servlets, JSP,  jExplorer, AJAX, Oracle WebLogic Portal 10.3x, Oracle Workshop for WebLogic 10gR3, Oracle WebLogic 12g, JUnit 3.8.1,  Kubra Payment tool , Oracle CC&B ,  BSM tool ,  Splunk ,  Maven,  Jenkins, JIRA, IBM Rational Clear Case, Apache tomcat,  HP Quality Center, Log4j,UNIX, Windows .
