Java Developer
Cablevision - Bethpage, NY
Cablevision is a leading provider of high-speed Internet, data, video and voice that exceed customers' expectations for quality, value and reliability. Cablevision Networking is one of the most strategic solutions available to businesses today. This project has won "Best Value" award for wide-area networking (WAN) solutions after a rigorous review process by CMP Media LLC s Network Computing Magazine.  Responsibilities: • Involved in design and development of the application using J2EE. • Involved in all phases of the application development. • Developed Presentation layer using JSP, HTML, JSON and XML. • Developed business logic using Session Beans and Entity Beans. • Have used DWR (Direct Web Remoting) framework to implement AJAX. • Experienced in Installing and Configuration of Application server WebSphere • Experience in Installing and Configuration of WebSphere servers like IBM Http server and Tomcat. • Package, build, Integrate and deploy enterprise J2EE applications on WebSphere that involves EAR and WAR. • Develop web application using Struts Framework. • Used IBM SOA Document workflow in implementing the application. • Wrote the validation XML files and properties file needed for validating user inputs. • Involved in development of JSON database for dynamic menu management. • Used various design patterns for module design and development. • Developed scripts to automate frequent reports for the users. • Implemented Patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Facade, Prototype, Decorator, Business Delegate and MVC. • Worked with Spring and Hibernate configuration files. Created the object relational mappings (ORM) of database tables with Java Beans. • Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server. • Design and development of application using Java, J2EE, Struts2, Hibernate & XML • Wrote procedures to call various stored procedures from database. • Involved in coding the helper classes for better data exchange between different layers. • Wrote a Batch Processing program to process the Scheduled payments using Web Service API. • Provided production support by fixing bugs. • Performed unit testing, system testing and user acceptance test. • Used SVN for version control. Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts2, Hibernate, CSS, HTML, JSP, JSF, JSON, XML spy, AJAX, JUnit, SVN, Java Script, Oracle 11g, IBM WebSphere8.0, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Maven, W3c, XML Beans, Web Services (SOA, SOAP).
