Java Developer
Chicago Mercantile Exchange , Chicago - Chicago, IL
Project Overview: The OTC IRS Automation project involved in developing an Automation framework for CME Clearing Application-Calypso, which was primarily used as Clearing and Settlement platform for OTC interest rate derivatives such as Vanilla Swaps, FRA, ZCS, BSP and OI Swaps. The Automation framework was custom written using Core Java technology from the scratch. The Automation was done end to end from Trade Capture till Clearing of deals of the member firms. Typical Automation development activity involves development of a robust framework which includes automating trade injection, validating individual EOD and ITD BO reports such as, Netting, Settlement, Register, Cash flows, Volume & OI, Fee reports. Adding value and enhancements to the existing scripts and framework was the vision of the Project along with identification of Test Scenarios, Consolidation and optimization of Test data, integrating the framework with Quality center for defect management and using JIRA as Test Management tool. The Calypso Focused Automation includes automating Cash flow, VOI and Fee Reports and providing solutions for config management and version control using CAM tool of Calypso.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, designed, developed and administered the WorkGroup Assignment module within the Channel Master application. • Responsible for requirement gathering, analysis and planning of this application requirement. • Implemented a new interface to interact application with Database and LDAP using Spring JDBC Template. • Worked on XML export and import utility for applications details. • Involved in application deployment and testing of all environments (SYS, INT, UAT and PROD). • Converted Batch files using Unix Scripting. • Responsible for Coding, Debugging and Integration of Modules.  • Involved in enhancement of modules and Bug Fixes. • Identified various test scenarios for products like Vanilla Swap, FRA and Basis Swap. • Created Test Data for Automation scripts for Vanilla Swap, FRA and Basis Swap. • Participated in New Releases and production testing for CME • Involved in all phases of functional, GUI, Regression and Build Acceptance tests. • Involved in identifying and removing Bad Trades from Environment with SQL Queries. • Designed Automation testing tools and frame works for full end -to- end execution using Bamboo and selenium. • Maintained various environments for Quality Assurance • Review and rework on the code. • Performed Code review. • Involved in writing the test scripts for Unit Testing, Functional testing and Regression testing  Environment: Java 1.6, spring IOC, Calypso systems & Oracle 11g, Unix Shell Scripting, Web logic 11g, JAXB, Maven, Log4j, TOAD for oracle, Eclipse, Edit plus, Putty, JUnit , JIRA, Bamboo/confluence, UC4Job Management /Scheduling, Selenium, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript.
