Senior Java/J2EE Developer
Verizon
Technology: JAVA,  Servlets, Oracle, PL/SQL, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Javascript, ANT, Websphere, Unix scripting, DevOps Role: Senior Developer  Description: The VIG (Vendor Intelligence Gateway) system is an online application that allows vendors and personnel from marketing and Cost Assurance (CostA) to view monthly invoices and approve or dispute them. VIG facilitates the managing of the various vendor revenue sharing and invoicing systems. CostA uses VIG to validate invoices submitted to VZW/VZT, as VIG can count the transactions and generate the recurring charges and feature-based charges to which CostA can compare and validate the invoice submitted. Revenue share models can be configured in VIG as the default for the service, for each vendor, and for each content Item. They can be set up to have a start and optional end date and are activated one at a time per service-vendor-content. Users are assigned specific roles (CostA, Marketing, Customer Care (BFO), or Administrator) within VIG. The user in the marketing role determines the payment authorization level that an individual has. Once CostA verifies the bills, Marketing must approve the payment before the money is sent to the vendor.  Responsibilities: ➢ Involved in client discussions to gather the requirements and preparing High level and Low level design documents. ➢ Involved in writing Spring configuration that contains beans declarations to inject dependencies. ➢ Involved in the development of using Spring MVC with Data access / integration layer consists of ORM module (Hibernate). ➢ Involved in writing PL/SQL code of various packages, procedures and triggers. ➢ Implementations of Services, DAO, VO for various modules using Spring MVC and Hibernate API. ➢ Involved in writing Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files, and developed persistence DAO classes to persist the data into Oracle Database using Hibernate Query Language (HQL). ➢ Developed front end UI design using adobe flash. Designed UI using mxml and spark components with validations in action script. ➢ Used Spring with flex framework to delegate the user requests and display the data back to user. ➢ Written events, controllers and delegates to dispatch the remote object from UI to server. ➢ Coordinated with offshore team to explain the user requirements and assigning the tasks. ➢ Extensively used DevOps tools for the Software Development Life Cycle process. ➢ BAU activities and User Acceptance Testing for the fixes.
