Java/J2ee Developer
Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC
Description: Wells Fargo FX complex products which gets data from Reuters, Gfx, Opics and applies complex logic to calculate clean pnl and to generate Mark to Market report for Fx Options and trades to feed other systems like iReports, MaRs and Calypso systems. Responsibilities:  ➢ Analysis, Design and Development of Software Applications using Java/J2EE, Spring, Weblogic 11, Soap/Rest Web Services, JSP, Eclipse,   Oracle, MySQL, Fenics, Calypso and Subversion. ➢ Designing and develop applications that satisfy the dynamic business needs. ➢ Re-designing the existing application to improve performance and maintainability. ➢ Involvement in analysis and design phase of the project. ➢ Analysis new business requirements that come up with the developed code and find solutions to complex problems arising out of dynamically changing business needs. ➢ Coordinating with business team and creating functional design document (FSD) and Technical design documents. ➢ Developed web-services using Service oriented architecture (SOA). ➢ Writing Java code to generate clean pnl for FX Options and trades. ➢ Re-designing and code refactoring to improve the performance and maintainability. ➢ Developing test programs to rigorously test the development work done for the project. ➢ Developing and configuring in-memory caching solutions using Oracle Coherence. ➢  Coordinating production releases with different teams. ➢ Providing production support and handling issue arising out of production. ➢ Involvement in version controlling and handling of code base. ➢ Wrote SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and AngularJS ➢ Development of front end/UI portals using Angular JS ➢ Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data ➢ Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory ➢ Interacting with the client on a daily basis regarding project status, new design proposals and handling technical issues related to the system development and maintenance.  ➢ Providing technical expertise on new design approaches to improve the maintenance and performance of the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JavaFx, JavaScript, Ajax, Html, CSS, Xml, Eclipse, Oracle Web Logic 11, Fenics 12.3, Calypso, Autosys, JMX+, SQL Server, Oracle, MySql, Restful/Soap web services, web logic, Java Web start, SOAP UI 5.0, Sub Version, HP ALM, Anthill Pro, Aqua Data Studio, Windows 7, Angular JS, Oracle Coherence
