Sr Java/J2EE - Application Developer
JPMorganChase - Columbus, OH
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is one of the oldest and largest financial services firm in the world. JP Morgan has global presence in Investment Banking, Asset Management, Private Banking, Private Wealth Management, and Treasury & Securities Services.  Responsibilities: • Involved in writing the Hibernate mapping configuration files for POJO's. • Used Hibernate for Object/Relational persistence mechanism. • Involved in Configuring web.xml and spring-config.xml according to the spring framework. • Worked on the Spring Framework in integration with Hibernate ORM framework. • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring Ioc (Dependency Injection) • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL. • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, and HTML5. • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards. • Implemented business logic in service layer as per the required functionality. • Involved in gathering requirements and prepared use cases, activity and Sequence diagrams for POS modules. • Used Java Socket Programming for communication with POS. • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using AngularJS • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging • Involved in writing SQL Queries to get the data from the database. • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#, Entity Framework and SQL. • Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions. • Wrote queries for CRUD operations to update, delete, insert and remove data from the database. • Involved in writing the JUnit test cases using Mockito framework for server side layers to test the functionality. Environment: J2EE, Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JMS, JQuery, HTML5, JSTL, POS, XML, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, AngularJS, Web Services, JUnit, SOAP, XML, JavaScript, UML, Apache Axis, ANT.
