Java/Web Developer
IBM - Chicago, IL
Project: VFS ( Fulfilment Service):In this Project we used Spring Framework 3.1 with JAX  Web services. VFS system is generating necessary enrollment materials for new and existing members. New members receive their ID cards, Membership Kit, and Welcome Letter. Responsibilities: • Worked on Spring framework 3.1 (MVC) with hibernate in data access layer to access and update the information in Database in MongoDb 2.6. • Develop HTML5 templates and perform client side Validation using JavaScript. Generated new and edited existing user interface with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic. • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML. • Used Ajax calls through Angular JS to populate the data tables on the front-end. • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON, ActiveMQ. • UI development with technologies like HTML 5, Angular JS and JQuery. • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS and HTML5. • Worked on Maven to prepare Java/J2ee Structure with Multithreading on all fixed plans. • Used Spring Tool suite for designing, coding and developing applications. • Worked on Cr's Issue on the daily basis Activity. • Worked on the front end, back end and Point Solution of the application using technologies such as JSF, JAVA 1.6, Oracle ADF and Hudson Server. • Experience in Hibernate 3.0 which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and also performed polymorphic associations. • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML to call MongoDb objects. • Have good experience in managing project files by using version control tools like Concurrent Version System (CVS), SVN and PVCS and bug tracking tools like Jira. • Build use cases components create design documents with different UML diagrams using Rational Rose • Played an active role in testing the application by testing the application for different scenarios and in production bug fixing. • Developing application using Spring Frameworks like Spring IOC, Sencha, MVC and Spring Web Flow. • Designing the front end using JSP, CSS and Html as per the requirements that are provided. Participating in project design sessions to document technical specifications and to provide design options and solutions • Preparing test cases and strategies for unit testing and integration testing for Application Support. Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, HTML, JQuery, XML, log4j, JUnit, Eclipse IDE, JMS, ActiveMQ STS 3.1, Jboss 7.0.2, DB2, GIT Version Manager, JDO, struts 2.0. Platforms used: WebSphere Application server
