Java Developer
EMC CORPORATION, South Borough
EMC Corporation is an American multinational corporation that sells storage, information, virtualization, analytics, cloud computing and other products and services that enable businesses to store, manage, protect, and analyze data. EMC's target markets include large companies and small- and medium-sized businesses across various vertical markets. Responsibilities: ➢  Implemented the application using Spring Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern. ➢ Designed and implemented a Cassandra NoSQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data ➢ Apache Kafka is used to allow a single cluster to serve as the central data backbone to offer strong durability and fault-tolerance guarantees. ➢ Design and develop the processes using multithreading to make it asynchronous. ➢ Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements. ➢ Implemented Spring Framework based RESTful web services. ➢ Wrote JUnit test cases to test the Optimization Module and created functions, sub queries and stored procedures using PL/SQL. ➢ Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations. ➢ Developed Java Beans, which will communicate with the middleware (EJB'S) and supplies the data to the web interfaces. ➢ Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for legal Professionals and legal Organizations using JSF my Faces, Ice Faces, JSP. ➢ Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases and also created the use cases for the module before the testing phase. ➢ Integrate with various back-end systems using REST.Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO. ➢ Implemented integration techniques using Apache Camel and Apache ActiveMQ technologies. ➢ Developed light weight user interfaces to display the live cash balances on web page using HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js and JDBC technologies at backend. ➢ Involved in interacting with business users for requirements. ➢ Written all applications in Eclipse (IDE) Environment.  Environment:CoreJava, J2EE, Apache Camel, Apache Kafka, REST, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Web Sphere Application Server, XML, XPath, XSD, Business Objects XI 3.1(Universe, Web Intelligence), Teradata, XSLT, JSF, JDBC, JavaScript, Angular js, HTML, CSS, Cassandra, CVS,  Maven, AJAX, Log4j, Junit.
