Sr. Java Technical Lead
Sutter Health - Sacramento, CA
Healthcare Application Development & Support The project with "Integration Team" at Sutter Health is to migrate, develop, and maintain new Interfaces and selected Integration tool EGATE505, JCAPS 6.3 environment is comprised of five regions. Interfaces are routes to carry information to and from various medical systems and also, some of these are applications to collect and maintaining patients, doctors and any Sutter Medical Network related information. There are six database instances running and one for each region (CVR, EBR, PCR, SSR, and WBR) and one for data that needs to be shared across all regions. Currently we are implementing all regions to new integration tool RED HAT JBOSS Fuse server and IDE IntelliJ. Responsibilities:  • Identified the Business requirements of the project. • Involved in preparing System Requirements for the project. • Involved in preparing Unit test cases Requirements for the project. • Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project • As an Analyst/Developer with the Integration team, responsible for end-end development of interfaces, which involves requirements analysis, JCAPS 6.3 development and coordinating UAT with application experts system wide in different regions of Sutter Health network? • Perform migration of interfaces from eGate and Java CAPS 5.1.3 environments to JCaps 6.3 environment. • Leading User Accepting Testing for new interfaces. • Working with application experts for different medical application like EPIC, MS4, MARS, Sun Quest RAD for performing end to end testing • Creating Design documents for development of interfaces. • Coding and testing new external connection systems. • Used SVN and git bash for version control of the application. • Needs extensive testing for new systems as these are critical medical applications • Require knowledge of Health Level 7 standards and terminology • Worked with JCAPS 5.1.3 for analyzing and gathering requirements using the old and extensions interfaces • Worked with Hudson for building and deploying new applications • Worked with eGate systems, which are the legacy interfaces to migrate them newer versions. • Utilized knowledge of Message queues for analyzing and resolving issues with new interfaces during UAT sessions. • Involved the existing routes from JCAPS6.3 to RED HAT JBOSS Fuse IntelliJ. • Involved in remedy tickets during project go-live time.  Environment: Core java, XML, SRE505, Java CAPS 5.1.3, Java CAPS 6.3, SVN, Hudson, Maven, Message Queues, Log 4j, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer, MARS, WinSCP, Net Beans, SFTP, Track Studio, Tomcat application server and RED HAT Jboss Fuse server and IDE Intellij.
