Sr. Java Developer
Barclays - Plano, TX
Description: Worked as a Sr. Java Developer at Barclay's online banking system, Barclays provides investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance and investment banking services. Barclay's option on the website enables the customers to access their accounts via the Internet. This application provides brokerage, investment banking and asset management services to individuals. They are also provided the service of instant transfers of funds between checking and savings accounts. Options like paying their bills using online banking services and changing their profile is also available. The fundamental goal of the project was to enhance the entire inside product line to be more robust in the current global segment.  Responsibilities: • Involving in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements and creating Detail Design Document. • Developed various helper classes needed using Multithreading. • Using agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments. • Used Groovy 2.0 for polyglot programming, troubleshooting and aggregate testing. • Used D3.js Framework for efficient manipulation of documents and graphical representation of queries. • Worked on JavaScript Libraries like jQuery and JSON. • Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Core. • Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end. • Implemented Controller Classes and Server side validations for account activity, payment history and transactions. • Implemented session beans to handle business logic for fund transfers. • Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate. • Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using Restful. • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSF 2.1, JavaScript and AJAX. • Extensive experience on modern frontend template in frameworks for JavaScript-including Bootstrap, AngularJS and jQuery. • Implemented Hibernate Framework to connect to database and mapping of java objects to database tables • Used Web Logic server for deploying the application. • Involved in writing the Maven build file to build and deploy the application. • Worked on SVN Version Control Systems. • Used Log4J to capture the logging information and JUnit to test the application classes. • Used Clear Case for Source Code maintenance.  Environment: Java, JSP, Java Script, JSTL, AJAX, XML, jQuery, AngularJS, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Tool Suite, Oracle 11g, Rational Rose, Log4j, JUnit, Maven, Web Logic, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL.
