Senior DataStage Developer
Sephora Inc
Sephora's unique, open-sell environment features an ever-increasing amount of classic and emerging brands across a broad range of product categories including skincare, color, fragrance, body, smile care, and haircare, in addition to Sephora's own private label.  Hardware/Software: IBM web sphere DataStage 8.7, Oracle 10g, SQL, SQL server, SQL Developer.  Responsibilities: ➢  Primary Responsibilities Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Development & Unit Testing on Marketing 3.0 & OMS Projects. ➢ Gathering requirements from business and converting to Low level design documents for Dev & QA phase. ➢ Provided production support and performed enhancement on existing multiple projects. ➢ Responsible for daily verification that all scripts, downloads, and file copies were executed as planned, troubleshooting any steps that failed, and providing both immediate and long-term problem resolution. ➢ Created Error Tables containing data with discrepancies to analyze and re-process the data. Extensively wrote user defined SQL codes to modify/overwrite generated SQL query in DataStage. ➢  Involved in day to day meetings to go through any issues in production like expected data was not received on time and any issues with data. Reporting day to day loads and counts to business to generate reports. ➢ Monitoring nightly loads on datastage server and identifying jobs which took longer than normal. Identified jobs will be tested in dev after changes to the code to run in a scheduled time. ➢ Worked on production tickets and ensure to close by the end of day. So that there will be no business impact. ➢ Validating daily processed data in prod and scheduling alerts if anything is not matching as expected. ➢ Build complex queries to fetch the data from the Sql Server Database as per the business requirement and use the Sql queries in the DataStage for further processing. ➢ Creating Test cases for ETL jobs based on business requirements and data cleansing rules ➢ Worked with DBA in making enhancements to physical Database schema. Also coordinated with DBA in creating and managing table, indexes, table spaces, triggers, Database links and privileges.
