Sr. Java/ UI Developer
Minacs - Detroit, MI
Description: MINACS is handling millions of records of the dealers and provides data analysis& reports to the OEM clients. Application involved in created dashboards contains various analysis on each module. Roles and Responsibilities: • Implemented the online application by using Core Java (OOPS), JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Web Services, SOAP, Restful and WSDL. • Developed a REST services using Jersey Framework. • Used Hibernate for Database connectivity • Implemented agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles. • Responsible for setting up Angular JS for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS. • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design. • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, JQUERY, and AJAX. • Developed front end along with pages for user interactions; for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript. • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5. • • Applied JQUERY core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side. • Brief experience on implementing the Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes. • Used JQUERY and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. • Utilized various JavaScript and JQUERY libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website. • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release. • Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review. • Structured the JavaScript code using Angular.js. • Created SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database. • Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility. • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application. • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and JQUERY. • Used SVN, GIT for Version Control • Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM  Environment: JSP, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JAVA, REST, JSON, DOM, Node.js, Angular.js, Require.js, bootstrap, MVC, AJAX, XML, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome.
