Sr. Java Developer
Freddie Mac - McLean, VA
Pricing Management Application (PMA), a part of Governance Project, is a web application to create, copy, modify, deactivate or reactivate Pricing Resources. By managing these Resources through the Change Request process, the Internal User with the appropriate roles and permissions can define pricing quickly and flexibly. Attributes are atomic pieces of information about a loan or contract and can be used to build Resources. The Master Inventory, which includes Master Eligibility Groups, Master Pricing Terms, Components and Component Sub-group Types, is used to help control the types of pricing that may be created, as specific Pricing Instances (i.e. Pricing Terms, Pricing Groups, Component Sub-groups, Component Levels and Eligibility Groups). Pricing Instances are created from the Resources in the Master Inventory and customized for specific Pricing Identifiers (ex: Sellers). An Internal User may also manage Business Arrangement Stipulations and Pricing Identifiers. Once the necessary resources have been established, a Pricing Identifier may be associated with a Pricing Group, Pricing Term and Business Arrangement Stipulations. Responsibilities: • Involved in the design and coding in various phases of this application using Agile Scrum Methodology. • Java Server Faces (JSF) and PrimeFaces are used to develop the User Interface.  • Business Delegate, Service Locator and Data Access Object (DAO) design patterns were extensively used. • The Transactions are handled using the EJB framework and Persistence is achieved using JDBC framework. • Application logging is handled using the Log4j framework and unit testing is handled using the JUnit framework. • SQL Developer was used as the Oracle client developer tool to access the IBM DB2 database. • QA defects were monitored through HP ALM QC and were involved in fixing the QA defects. • Used Putty to access the DEV and QA environments to monitor the logs and support the build team for build/deployment errors. • Application is build using Maven and deployed on the Oracle Weblogic Application Server 10.3. • Rational Clearcase is used as the version controlling system and Eclipse 3.7(Indigo) is used as the IDE for the developing the PMA application. Environment: Java (J2SE 1.6, J2EE 1.6), JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.4, JSF 2.2, AJAX, PrimeFaces 5.1, EJB 3.0, XML, JSTL 1.1.2, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, Clearcase 7.1.2, Log4J 1.2.14, JUnit 4.8, JAXB, Maven 2.0, Oracle Weblogic Application Server 10.3 , IBM DB2, UNIX, HP ALM QC 11.2, Oracle Sql Developer 4.1, Windows 7, Rational Rose
