Java/J2EE Developer
Payless ShoeSource - Topeka, KS
Description: It is an intranet application developed for employees within the company. The employees can access their own information and update the information on various types of insurance policies provided by the company. The employees can also process claims and authorize payments for the customers. It is developed with identity manager and self-provisioning in where users can do reset passwords and create accounts.  Responsibilities: • Designed and developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology by breaking down the project to several sprints. • Participated in design and architecture meetings to decide on the technology stack suited for the application development. • Developed the MVC application according to the user requirements using Spring MVC, AngularJS, JSP, JSTL, Html and CSS. • Wrote Spring validators for validation and configured dispatcher servlet and tiles view resolver for Spring MVC. • Developed various Spring rest controllers for request mappings and created JSPcustom tag libraries for the application. • Implemented business logic using Spring service layer and Spring DAO layer using Spring Framework 3.2.0 • Configured Spring declarative transaction manager and implemented transaction management in DAO layer. • Integrated Spring and Hibernate, configured logging using log4j and developed exception handling for the application. • Wrote HibernateCriteria queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to mapjava entities to database tables. • Developed web pages using Spring tag library, JSP custom tags, Angular directives and angularUI components. • Wrote Junit test cases to test the Spring DAO layer and created Batch Services to generate reports using Spring Batch. • Used Hibernate 3 for accessing and persisting data between Java objects/classes and a relational database. • Wrote Spring JMS message listeners to consume JMS messages coming from external applications using JMS Template. • Wrote HQL queries for reportsand Criteria queries to get the data in the Data tables. • Used Subversion for software configuration management and version control • Involved in Unit & Integration Testing of the application. • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on Weblogic application server. Environment: J2EE/J2SE, Java 6.0, Weblogic 11g, Oracle 11g, Spring MVC, Angular-JS, Angular-UI, DI, ORM, Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML, JSP 2.0, MySQL, Windows 7, Sub Version, Rally, Eclipse Kepler.
