Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Dell Inc - Round Rock, TX
Project: Web based Content Management Application Description: Dell Inc. is an American privately owned multinational  computer Technology Company that develops, sells, repairs and supports computers and related products and services. The application consists of a web application and a toolbar that facilitates easy access and management of all your information including web searches, bookmarks, files, notes, and more. The application also enables the user to manage information across contexts and provides work-space to store all the information which is accessible both in online and offline mode Responsibilities: • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, spring and Hibernate. • Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and XML technology. • Involved in handling transactions using Spring Declarative Transaction management. • Implemented Caching mechanism using Spring Gem fire Template. • Implemented DAO layer using different hibernate techniques like strategies, Inheritance, annotations and criteria interfaces. • Used SOA Integration service for Data Integration Service and Functional Integration Service .Used SOAPUI for the functional testing and inspection and invocation of spring based Web Services. • Designing new components to fit in the already existing architecture using core Java, multi-threading different design patterns like the factory method, Abstract factory pattern, Singleton. While developing web-based applications used Web Services, both SOAP/WSDL and REST, • Developed Web application using Python, Django, JavaScript, AJAX, Java applets and servlets, HTML, XML and template languages • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases. Worked on server-side web applications using Node.js • Involved in Construction of UI using JQuery, AngularJs, Ext.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript. • Involved in Message Broker Development using IBM integration, Message Sets and Message Definitions, Coded the ESQL for Message Transformation Nodes, Eclipse, XML/XSLT and XSD. • Implemented Ajax and JQuery based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement. • Developed the war/ear file using Ant script and deployed into Web Sphere Application Server. • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with ExtJS and Coded the front end Ajax framework components using Web 2.0 JavaScript library ExtJS. • Extensively used Oracle SQL Developer graphical tool for the enhancement and simplification of Database Development task. Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools ILOG, BRMS and BLAZE for business management. Created rule-based decision services using BRMS (ILOG JRules framework) • Developed specialized search system using Mongo DB, AngularJs, Java Servlets, JUnit, Maven. • Deployed, Managed and Monitored Mongo DB Replica Sets / Databases. Prototyped Mongo DB new features across multiple stacks • Created tools to support and enable Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment and system monitoring/reporting using Puppet, Chef, JSP and Shell Scripts with a MySQL database. • Installed, configured and hosted the Oracle, Tomcat app servers and MySQL DB servers on physical servers (Linux, Windows), and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux). • Used cloud computing technologies Amazon EC2 and Amazon S3 web services for Cloud Drive, Cloud Search. Migrated corporate Linux servers from physical servers to AWS virtual servers. • Used Oracle 10g AWR & ADDM to monitor database activities and performance tuning.  Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Performed Database and SQL tuning, Configuration, maintenance and tuning of 10g RAC. • Developed Exception handling code to recover from DB specific, Application specific, Business and Non-business logic specific exceptions. • Used JSF for internal report generation by fetching data from database with customized view using CSS and AJAX for form processing. Implemented Message Driven Bean Using JMS.. Implemented enterprise applications with JQuery, AngularJs and Spring MVC. • Involved in creating test cases using JUnit for Java classes and Abstract spring dependency Injection test for spring beans. Developed web-based tools for testing using Python, HTML and JavaScript • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production. AWS(DynamoDB, SQS, EC2, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch), AngularJs, Oracle11g/10g, SQL, Drop wizard, DB2
