Senior Java/J2EE Developer
American Express  - Phoenix, AZ
Responsibilities • Worked in POS (Point of sale) application that involved activities like requirement gathering, design and development for a Web site.  • Spring framework to implement bean to declare a service and accessed those using Application context.  • Spring DAO, Core Container and Application Context module.  • Redesigned the HN-Web Application by replacing the custom MVC Type 2 web framework with the new Spring MVC framework.  • Designs and develops cross-plane service components with Spring Framework and Spring Web Flow.  • Struts framework for MVC design Pattern, Action class, Action Servlet, Form Bean.  • Used JSF components-Button, Label, Html, Static Text, Text Area etc. in the front end of the application.  • Familiarity with Angular.js components like controllers, directives, Dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events.  • Developed UI with Angular.js, Node.js framework and validations with AJAX, and JQuery.  • Used Informatica Power Center for (ETL) extraction, transformation and loading data from heterogeneous source systems.  • Customized, ran and monitored ETL execution plans.  • Designed the application using UML. Class Diagrams, Sequence diagrams and State diagrams were developed using Rational Tools. Used Stored Procedures to crunch data on Oracle 10g.  • JavaScript frameworks: Dojo, JWT, jQuery, prototype and more.  • EJB experience consisted of Session Beans, CMP (container-managed persistence) Entity Bean, BMP (bean-managed persistence) Entity Bean, and development of Message-driven Beans.  • Deployed the application on JBoss Application server.  • Used Oracle10g as the backend database and Hibernate as ORM Tool to retrieve Data Access Objects  • Creating database objects and developing and modifying PL/SQL packages, functions, procedures.  • Coordinated team application of test-driven development (TDD) strategies to optimize system quality and to enable rapid refactoring and Agile Methodology.  • Involved in creating test cases using JUnit and EasyMock for Java classes and Abstract spring dependency Injection test for spring beans.   Skills Used Environment: J2EE, RAD, XML Spy, TOAD, Web Sphere Application Server, JMS, JBossApplication, DB2, Oracle 9i, SOAP (JAX-WS), XSD
