Sr DevOps Engineer
American Family - Madison, WI
Responsibilities: • Participated in the release cycle of the product which involved environments like Development QA UAT and Production • Regular Build jobs are initiated using the Continuous Integration tool with Jenkins. • Wrote Puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, Instalshield and managing collected for metric collection and monitoring. • To achieve Continuous Delivery goal on high scalable environment, used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool Nginx • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control. • Develop and implement an automated Linux infrastructure using Puppet. • Wrote Puppet models for installing and managing java versions. • Wrote a Python plugin for collected to write metrics to statsd. • Set up system for dynamically adding and removing web services from a server using Docker, Nginx, and GitLab CI. • Implemented automated local user provisioning in instances created in Openstack cloud. • Deploying the Openstack components on multimode with high availability environment. • Creating user level of access for related GitHub project directories to the code changes. • Performed all necessary day-to-day Subversion/GIT support for different projects. • Used Artifactory repository tool for maintaining the Java based release code packages. • Provided the assistance for the smooth phase of Release for the Emergency and Expedite Releases by getting the Director Level Approval and coordinating with different teams. • Written Shell scripts to apply the Integration label to all the files which needs manual labelling of files. • Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard and PuppetDB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. • Owner of Jenkins, GitHub, Puppet, Artifactory, and all internal build systems for the core development team on an enterprise-level Java-based cloud orchestration/automation tool. • Strictly enforced ITIL process while pushing builds and deployments to prod and pre-prod environments. • Configured the user's accounts for Continuous Integration - Jenkins, Nexus and Sonar. • Gathered all the stakeholder approvals, necessary signoffs while acting as a release manager for two development teams.  ENVIRONMENT: Java/J2ee, Puppet, OpenStack, Ant, Maven, Subversion, UNIX, SVN, Bamboo, Nexus Pro, Sonar, Jira, Remedy, Python, Nagios, Ruby, Shell Scripts, Tomcat, Jenkins.
