Sr. Java Developer
Supreme Court of Virginia - Richmond, VA
VJCS The mission of Virginia's judicial system is to assure that disputes are resolved justly, promptly, and economically. The components necessary to discharge this function are a court system unified in its structure and administration, competent, honest judges and court personnel, and uniform rules of practice and procedure. This pamphlet is offered to promote a better understanding of the operation of the Virginia court system and the manner in which its mission is accomplished.  Responsibilities: • Designed UI screen for payment Quote to get User information with JSP, Spring tag library. • Developed Action Classes, Service Classes for Resident Insurance premium payment module. • Involved in Coding JavaScript code for UI validation and worked on Spring validation frameworks. • Analyzing the Client Requirements and designing the specification document based on the requirements. • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Design (OOD). • Familiar with the state-of-the-art standards, processes, design processes used in creating and designing optimal UI using Web 2.0 technologies like Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, and XSLT. • Involved in the Preparation of Program Specification and Unit Test Case Document. • Designed the Proto according to the Business requirements. • Involved in the preparation of use case, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, Activity diagrams etc using Rational rose.. • Analysis and Design of the Object models using JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns in various tiers of the application. • Extensively used JSF framework in creation of front-end UI development. • Involved in mapping of all configuration files according to the JSF Framework • Developed Presentation Layer using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JSP and validated the data using AJAX and JavaScript. • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP and used SOAP UI tool for testing the services. • Involved in the development of Data base Connections and Database Operations using JDBC. • Involved in write Sql Queries and Stored Procedures. • Developed Action and Model Classes. • Build application using Maven tool. • Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, ModelandView Objects, View Resolver. • Wrote Action Form and Action classes. Used various Tags HTML, Bean, and Logic etc. Also Configured Spring-Config.xml for global forwards, error forwards and action forwards. • Used Spring Tiles framework for the development user interface. • Involved in the Code Review. • Wrote SQL Queries and PL/SQL procedures for the application. • Interacted to Client for better understanding of Business requirements. • Worked with Ant build tool to build the Project and Involved in the Unit Testing. • Wrote test cases using Mockito framework. • Build and deployment on Web sphere application server. • Involved in Production Support and Enhancement Developments.  Environment:Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, WebSphere, HTML, WebService, JSF, JDBC, SQL, DOM, XMLConnectionPool, PL/SQL, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, ClearCase, XSLT, log4j, Maven, Netbeans, JUNIT and Mockito.
