Sr. Java Developer
Bank of America - New York, NY
The online banking system of Bank of America, has more than 30 million active users. Working as part of a team on the design, development, testing, support and implementation of Cash Back Deals and Rewards program in online banking. Responsibilities: ➢ Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework. ➢ Designed and developed front end using HTML, CSS, JSP, Struts (tiles and tag libraries) and validation through JavaScript, JQuery. ➢ Implement web service using JAX-RPC. Implemented JBoss Fuse to integrate application components. ➢ Create JAX-RPC handlers for pre and post processing of soap messages. ➢ Helped improve code coverage by writing Junits for the implemented code. ➢ Configured security using Spring Security API. ➢ Java Mail API was used to notify the authors about document publishing status. ➢ Design and implement asynchronous messaging using JMS API an IBM MQ MOM. ➢ Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems. ➢ Developed Model Components Action beans, Action Form beans, and Data Transfer Objects of Struts Framework. ➢ Translated business logic into Python code. ➢  Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate. ➢ Refactored existing Angular JS application for code maintenance based on MVC pattern. ➢ Extensively used JMX API for dynamic web solutions. ➢ Analyzed multi-platform and cross functional applications using Python. ➢ Worked on SQL Server development, creating schema objects, indexes, foreign keys, entity relationships, data loads and data import & export. Including stored procedures, VB scripting, views and triggers. ➢ Worked on Oracle development, PI/SQL, stored procedures, triggers, materialized views. ➢ Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. ➢ Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. ➢ Highly involved in the configuring Web Sphere servers and database connections and deploying applications to application servers in Testing and UAT environments. ➢ Developed JSP pages using STRUTS frame work, Custom tags and JSTL and involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the struts framework. ➢ Implemented solutions relying on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), using SOAP based Web Services. ➢ Provide technical support to production system. ➢ Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging/prod tables.  Environment: Solaris, JSP, Servlet, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JMS, JCA, JMX, XML, SOAP UI, RESTful Web Services, CSS, XML Schema, Python, AJAX (JQUERY, AJAX), JSON, JBoss Fuse JAXP, SAX, DOM, JAXB, JAX-RPC, SAAJ, SOAP, Javascript, PL/SQL, D/HTML, XHTML, Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic 8.0, Oracle 9i RDBMS, Mercury Quality Center 9.0, Eclipse 3.2, CVS.
