Java/UI Developer
GlaxoSmithKline - Philadelphia, PA
Description: Staples makes it easy to make more happen with more products and more ways to shop. Through its world-class retail, online and delivery capabilities, Staples offers more products than ever, in categories such as technology, facilities and break room, furniture, safety and medical, as well as Copy & Print and Staples Easy Tech services. AdCost stands for Advertisement Costing System used as a Financial and Marketing Tool. AdCost is used to cost, schedule, track, invoice market events and to issue coupons with various scheduled events.. Responsibilities:  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies. • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages. • Worked in a group, included in developing the UI layout and front - end programming for web application that matches necessities of Verizon. • Built Web pages that are more client interactive utilizing jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Backbone JS and JavaScript, Bootstrap. • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application. • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems). • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database. • Worked on Server-side pagination for processing high volume of data to the UI. • Designed user interface layout using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML. • Validation is performed using Struts validator. • Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors. • Used JSON to fetches the data from Web Services.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle Database. • Used Hibernate as ORM tool for accessing database. • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring. • Responsible for writing Struts action classes, Hibernate POJO classes and integrating Struts and Hibernate with Spring for processing business needs. • Struts Tag Libraries and Struts Tiles Framework were used in addition to JSP, HTML, AJAX and CSS in developing the presentation layer. • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, and Ajax. • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Used JIRA for bug tracking. • Used JAXP for parsing & JAXB for Binding. • Conducted Unit Testing, interface testing, system testing and user acceptance testing • Involved configuration and deployment of application on Tomcat Apache. • Deployed the applications into LIVE and QA Environment • Used SVN for version and source control. • Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, Web Services, JSP, Ajax, framework, Windows XP and MS Office
