Jr.JAVA DEVELOPER
BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC
Description: I am working on multiple components of the BOFA online application such as dispute a transaction, fraud activity, help & support & UCI. Dispute a Transaction: The customer can dispute the transaction in few situations then Bank will verify the transaction and refund the amount. Fraud Activity: If the Bank suspected any fraudulent transaction on the card then it will put hold on the card, send mail or message communication to the customer verifying the transaction. Help and Support: Customer can get Help and support on different topics in different categories and the customer will be navigated to desired topics based on the selection. UCI (Update Customer Information): Here the customer can update their address, Email and contact numbers.  ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES: • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). • Prepared Technical Design documents that include Class, use case & sequence diagrams using UML Rational Rose. • Used Agile methodology for implementing the features & participated in scrum meetings, backlog grooming sessions, scrum of scrums & in effort estimations & designs. • Developed Session beans which encapsulate the workflow logic. • Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers. • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations. • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections. • I was actively involved in architecting various Business Layer components and Data Management components of this web based system over J2EE architecture. • Implemented user and presentation layer using Spring-MVC. • Worked extensively on Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, MQ series, JMS and Message Driven Beans. • Experience in Relational Database Management Systems such as Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 and PL/SQL. • Experience developing and Optimizing DB2 SQL Queries. • Transferred data between front-end and back-end using JSON and AJAX. • Involved in coding Business Functionalities. • Involved in creating & consuming SOAP based & Restful web services. • Worked on a team to develop front end components utilizing HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS framework. • A web application using Angular.js consuming REST services, and a JMX client connecting to the JMX server for providing monitoring applications were developed. • Created a Selenium WebDriver script to test Sign In. • Used Apache Camel for creating routes using Web service. • Used Selenium IDE and Firebug to identify xpaths for dynamic AUT objects. • Worked on post-production activities by monitoring the logs/Splunk. • Used Struts Interceptors for preprocessing and post processing after executing the action class and xml framework validation. • Created Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application and to develop complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database • Developed User Interface using CSS, GUI, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets and JSTL • Designed a Graphical User Interface (GUI) in Java Swing using various Swing components (Jtree, JTable, JList, JCombo Box, JMenu, and Layout Management). • Worked on XP development principals and techniques including test drive development, paired programming, continuous integration, JUnit & incremental design. • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator. • Developed JPA & Hibernate queries, and designed web pages using JSF & Primefaces. • Worked on issues/defects in DEV/QA/ UAT and PROD environments. • Used JUnit test cases & make sure the quality metrics using find bugs, PMD & code coverage. • Involved in writing & building the code using ANT & maintained continuous integration using Jenkins. • Used SVN tool and Git for version controlling & tracking.  ENVIRONMENT: Java/J2EE, XML, XSD, JAXP, JSTL, JAXB, JSF, Primefaces, struts, Spring, Ajax, Java Script, Web Services, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, win merge, DB2, SQL Server, Linux, Ant, Apache Camel, SVN, GitHub, AngularJS, JQuery
