Python Developer
Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA
Project: Development and Enhancement of Travelzoo, the premier travel reservation site.  Travelers can find their dream destinations and post their requirements and inquiries. Travel agents can post their promotions and can respond to the inquiries and interests of travelers. Features include memberships, destination search, payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.  Lead Responsibilities: • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality. • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment. • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery). • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading. • Built application logic using Python 2.7. • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info. • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents. • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing. • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects. • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. • Used the Django Framework to develop the application. • Used Django APIs for database access. • UIS system design (Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.). • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files. • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates. • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling. • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra. • Performed Design and Code reviews. • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce). • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.
