Java Developer
Key Bank - Cleveland, OH
Responsibilities: • Involved in Preparing SAD, design and design document and development of the applications, Unit testing and Deployments. Participated in Security testing and Performance testing. • Developed Web Application Using Core Java, Spring, Mongodb, HTML5, Angular-JS, Javascript, Jquery and CSS. • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and used Angular-UI and Bootstrap for the web application. • Developed Jasmine unit test cases for controllers, services, directives and used Karma as the unit test runner. • Developed Spring Bean Classes (Service Classes) for implementing Business logic and configured beans to manage bean lifecycle using annotations and xml based configuration. • Used Spring MVC module to write REST controllers, map URL's for the request and present with different views for different use cases. • Developed Spring Java DSL configuration and used complete annotation approach for defining beans and dependency injection. • Involved in development of data abstraction layer using Spring Data and Mongodb. • Performed CRUD operations using Spring data mongodb repositories and mongo-template. • Involved in creating documents, collections and performed mapping between Java classes and mongodb collections and documents. • Developing and Consuming the REST web services using Jersey API. • Used Jackson API for convert JSON constructs to Java objects and vice versa. • Consuming SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier. • Testing the SOAP web services using SoapUI and POSTMAN for testing REST web services. • Integrated various modules and deployed them in WebSphere Application Server. • Developed JUnit test cases for performing unit testing. Used Spring Mockito to mock various test objects. • Used Maven Plug-in for configuring and building projects and used GIT for version control. • Used PPMC for deployment of code and Veracode for performing static security testing. • Used Splunk to write log messages and used Log4j to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) • Project was developed and implemented in Agile/scrum methodology.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Agile Development Process, Web Services, JSP, Spring, Mongodb, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, JSON, REST, Maven, Log4J, JUnit, GIT, Splunk and Websphere 8.5
