II or QA Assurance Analyst
Design Validation Engineering Spec - Mounds View, MN
Multi-Tech Systems, Incorporated. Mounds View, Mn Section Manager: Kevin Hong / Jerome Meyer Employment dates: 05/97 to 05/15 Create test cases and validate a product performance to criteria presented via Engineering project development stages.  Make sure a product is functioning correctly and in accordance with design specifications, and repair any failing or defective components, if necessary.  Provide Help desk type of support to inhouse Technical Support technicians and customers alike.  Along with all of the support level of communications, I was responsible for providing Technical Writers with information that will help in the documentation of owners and quick-start manuals. Thus, becoming familiarized with providing step-by-step procedural documents using Adobe and Microsoft solutions.  Not to exclude  HTML Web page creation, Database, Word-processing, and publishing applications. I applied many usages to numerous Operating Systems, network, and Windows Platforms.  Compiling/creating applications, writing scripts for redundant operations, scripted using DOS batch files, Python, ZOC, Cucumber, and Powershell. Programmed in C++/Assembly/Machine/Basic language utilities for different applications and troubleshooting many various quirks in DOS, Linux. Windows, Mainframe type of terminal apps, and programmed AS400 connections.  Main products of test during the last decade while in this position were, but, not limited to: Cellular devices using routers and various radio devices. Then, for UI testing I used Selenium with Cucumber to step through a GUI for repetitively testing fields within a products Web UI. In closing, I have performed for so many years at so many levels of testing networks and utilities, I am fairly confident in my ability to perform any task.  Some now call the procedures I have used for years as 'scrum' and using 'agile' methodologies, as best as I can determine.  More information is available upon request. Reason for departure: Early retirement/Laid off.
