Sr. Java Developer
Time Warner Cable, VA
Identity Management System This application is an integration platform that enables distributed systems to have enterprise-wide access to shared business information and business services, and enables the integration of business processes and information across system boundaries, used by Broadband Provisioning System to orchestrate the Device Management functions providing 360 degree solutions to the business that is Customers, Accounts, Services, and Devices.  Responsibilities: • Solution architecture, Design and development of Products and customized Applications. • Webservice implementation, consolidation and SOA governance. • Utilize Agile process to streamline development process with iterative development. • Design and development of web applications- using Jquery, Java, JSF, PrimeFaces, Spring, Hibernate. • BPM modeling, re-engineering, basic service implementations, composite service implementation. • Implemented the task dashboard of different jBPM work flows, and browsing capability using Apache Solr with JBOSS. • Human task work flow implementation, custom human task application implementations. • The system was developed in a test driven development (TDD), Extreme Programming (XP), Pair Programming environment using iterative development methodologies. • Configured and utilized ActiveMQ queues for asynchronous communication between applications. • Responsible for the verification of the Solr search and indexes working and the quality before it is published. • Modeling of various business processes using JBPM, and business rules using Drools Expert. • Solr tuning with various search strategies in the customer's in-house developed data sets. • Using CXF, exposed the restful and SOAP-based web services as API to be utilized by mobile applications. • Implemented the web services and associated business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate ORM framework. • Using PL/SQL, written various stored procedures to enhance the performance. • Creating development plan, effort estimation and work assignments to team • Performing a role of 'Lead' in agile development. • Defining responsibilities and reviewing deliverables for the sprints and stories. • Continuous Integration using Hudson/SVN. • Unit Test documentations and bug fixing • Working with other teams to create the common solutions to resolve issues.  Environment Java 6, JSP, Servlets, EJB2.1/3.0 JMS, JSF 2.0, PrimeFaces, Spring, Hibernate, PrimeFaces, JBPM Guvnor 5.2, Drools Expert, XML, XSLT, XML Parsers, Web Services, SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, JQuery, Apache CXF, Apache 2.x, Apache ActiveMQ 5.3 & 5.7, Apache Solr, Eclipse […] Agile, TDD, XP, Pair programming, JBOSS 5.5, ANT, MS Visual Studio 2008/ 2010, SQL Server 2008, Oracle DB 11i, Harvest, SCM 12, Windows XP, Windows Server 2008,  Hudson, Putty, WinSCP.
