Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, KS
Cerner Solution: iBus/CareAware Description: iBus provides a messaging framework that connects third party devices (MDI/BMDI) with Cerner EMR. Role and Responsibilities: • Interact with third-party device vendors in understanding the device specifications and develop software that integrates with Cerner Millennium Architecture. • Help client sites integrating MDI/BMDI/General Lab devices with Cerner. • Develop device drivers for different protocols such as HL7, ASTM that parse data sent by devices. • Monitor and troubleshoot network issues and device connectivity. • Develop RESTful web services for iBus to be consumed by other teams. • Performed unit and functional testing for the delivery of quality programming artifacts. • Perform device certification so that the device vendors can market their devices for sale with Cerner. • Used Hibernate and other J2EE technologies for the server side programming. • Used Hibernate to store Java Objects to a relational database (Oracle 10g) • Responsible for the Unit Testing, Integration Testing, QA and implementation. Maintenance of the system and updating of the system as per client requirements.  Cerner Solution: 724Access Description: The scope of this project was to develop a solution that supports "near real time" clinical data to be available during downtime. It is designed around two different client focus areas, one being the mitigation of downtimes, the other being the ability to offload reports from production. Roles and Responsibilities: • Requirements analysis, technical design, hazard analysis, development, testing of Health Information Management software for hospital facilities. • Developed different views and widgets using eclipse RCP. • Developed views, data access layer for Audit logs, Medication orders, Lab results • Used Spring to integrate with Hibernate and used Hibernate Templates to implement the data access layer. • Production support during after subsequent releases to the pipelines. Troubleshooting involves process investigation, testing and fixing defects raised as service requests.  Cerner Solution: PowerChart/PowerOrders Description: The scope of this project was to develop a solution that supports workflow of orders such as medication, non-medication, oncology etc.    orders for patients and for charting and documenting patient results. Roles and Responsibilities:  • Undertaken several enhancement projects where data retrieval is performed using hibernate framework • Developed java services needed for Oncology workflows. • Maintain backend servers which are used for placing and retrieving medication and non-medication orders. • Profiling servers using JProbe. • Maintain, deploy and monitor performance of servers using Websphere. • Involved in detailed design, development using Core Java and Hibernate • Perform unit testing using JUnit4 incorporating mocks like Mockito/JMock etc • Conduct and participate in code reviews using Crucible. Environment: Core Java (JDK 1.7), J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework 3., JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Multi-threading, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, Eclipse 3.1, Oracle 10g, Tomcat 7, Web Services, Apache Axis, JMS, IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0, JBOSS 7.0, GIT, Log4J, Ant 1.6.
