Sr. J2EE Developer
Equifax - St. Louis, MO
Description: Create a web application to replace the existing Oracle system. The new system also include newly requested functionality, including tracking and reporting on Search and Rescue. Training related information and loans and Grants tracking.  Responsibilities: • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned. • Worked on all phases of agile development life cycle. • Used JSF and Rich faces as a MVC Framework to develop User Interfaces. • Deployed Project WAR (Web Archive) file in Tomcat Application Server. • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated frameworks like Struts and Hibernate • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module. • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the SQL Server database. • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and written hibernate mapping files and Named Queries. • While developing web-based applications used Web Services, like SOAP. • Developed Web Services component using XML, XPath, WSDL and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications. • Used SOAP for exchanging XML parsing application using HTTP and managing HTTP sessions using Coherence. • Provided Application and Component Architecture for Java EE / SOA Applications and also experience in multithreading programming. • Designing the MongoDB Documents/collections and developed application using MongoDB, spring, Rest Web Services. • Involved in JVM Performance Tuning: Heap analysis, Thread dump, Heap dumps, Memory leaks, Core dumps. • Used Oracle 11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures. • Extensively developed User defined Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic. • Coordinate with the onsite and offshore developers with respect to issues and follow up. • Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse and WSAD/RAD for developing, deploying and debugging the applications. • Developed application using Spring, Grails Application Framework. • Worked on Spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies. • Designed and implemented a RESTful web service API as a Tomcat hosted servlet using Java, Jersey, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring JDBC and Maven. • Used Spring Web Module integrated with Java Server Faces (JSF) MVC framework. • Expert in using J2EE frameworks including Struts, Hibernate, Spring Batch framework, EJB, JMS, JPA, JDBC, and other supporting interfaces. • Experience in developing applications using frameworks like Struts, iBatis. • Designed and implemented web-based applications using J2EE, Java, DOJO, REST, and JDBC. •     Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy. • Worked on various Java Application servers - BEA Web Logic […] WebSphere Application Server 7.x/8.0, JBoss server and Tomcat. • Worked on Mongo DB, and Solr to develop the data layer. • Created an XML schema for the Solr search engine based on the Oracle schema. • SOA and WebLogic installation and SOA configuration, deploying applications. • Working experience on back end web services using spring, JAX-RS and RESTful services. • Experience of working in Test driven development (TDD) and Agile development environment. • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, Bootstrap and jQuery, JSON. • Coding in Python utilizing the Web2py framework with MVC technology and development of tools/applications in Python. • Designed and implemented internal web services in Python/Django. Implemented and refactored Python data migration code using Django. • Used the Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, ext.js and Require.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. • Responsible for developing the full stack (front-end development, application logic, services, data persistence). • Experience in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using SVN, CVS and Git. • Application UI development using AJAX, jQuery, HTML, JSP, XML, CSS, Java Swing and JSP. • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js, Angular.js and Ext.JS. • Developed, implemented and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience using XML parsing, XSLT templates. • UI development using GWT, developing reusable widgets/ table/ grids and complex UI component. • Created UI templates for final look and feel using HTML5. • Deployed application using JBoss Application Server in development and production environment • Programming experience and knowledge using MS SQL Server database, scripts for the database objects like tables, views, constraints, stored procedures and functions. • Wrote complex queries and mapped database views using DAO in Oracle and DAO classes using Hibernate to interact with the database. • Used SVN as the version control tool and UNIX shell scripting as part of deployment process. • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies. • Experienced in using ANT and Log4j. • Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing, writing Junit tests cases for every java class.  Environment: Java 8/7, J2EE, SQL, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JSON, XSLT, XPath, Solr, Groovy/Grails framework, Coherence, Ext JS, JSF 1.2/2.0, JavaScript, DOJO, Django, DAO, Junit, Spring 4.x, MongoDB, Log4j, Spring Integration, iBatis, Hibernate ORM, TDD, Git, Web Services (SOAP), Tomcat server, Agile, JIRA, Servlets, Node.js, JSP, HTML5.
