DevOps / BUILD AND RELEASE ENGINEER
Wilbur Ellis - Cashmere, WA
Description:Wilbur-Ellis is a leading international marketer and distributor of agricultural products, animal feed and specialty chemicals and ingredients. By developing strong relationships, making strategic market investments and capitalizing on new opportunities, Wilbur-Ellis has  to grow its business with sales over $3 billion.  Responsibilities: • Provided CM and Build support for more than 4 different applications, built and deployed to lower and higher environments. Defined and Implemented CM and Release Management Processes, Policies and Procedure. • Automated the release pipeline to achieve zero touch deployments using Jenkins, SVN, Nexus, and Nolio. • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using Subversion (SVN) source control. • Created deployment workflows in Nolio which includes prerelease, release and Post release steps • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for SVN. • Implement, maintain and support reliable, timely and reproducible builds for project teams. • Maintained build related scripts developed in shell for Maven builds. Created and modified build configuration files including POM.xml. • Worked with development team to migrate Ant scripts to Maven. • Experienced in authoring pom.xml files, performing releases with the Maven release plugin, and managing artifacts in Sonatype NEXUS repository. • Worked with the documentation of Migration process, AWS Deployment setup, Application Stack deployments and Troubleshooting Scenarios. • Researched and implemented code coverage and unit test plug-ins like find bugs, check style and PMD with Maven/Hudson. • Developing procedures to unify, streamline and automate application development and deployment procedures with Linux container technology using Docker • The Dulwich implementation of Git is a pure Python software component for Python • Utilized Perl and Python for GIT. • Primarily used Ruby to write GIT applications. • Installed and configured foreman with puppet for auto-provisioning the Linux machines in AWS and VMware environments. • Used Maven dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects and environments. • Configured and maintained Hudson to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds. Took the sole responsibility to maintain the CI Hudson server. • Work with development/testing, deployment, systems/infrastructure and project teams to ensure continuous operation of build and test systems. • Deployed code on Web logic ApplicationServers for UAT, IST, and Development environments. • Worked on the Oracle databases in the backend to execute the DMLs and DDLs. • Own full lifecycle of build system - from analysis, development, implementation and support of builds, unit testing and deployments. • Interact with developers and Enterprise Configuration Management Team for changes to best practices and tools to eliminate non-efficient practices and bottlenecks. • Coordinate with Release Management regarding appropriate system releases among other development platforms.  Environment:SVN, Jenkins, Nolio, Web logic, Nexus, Sonar, JIRA, Oracle, Shell, WLST, Python, Ant, Maven, Java, Linux, AWS, Tomcat, MC Vmax, Docker, NetApp FAS3050, BL685cc Gen8, GIT 1.6, SVN.
