Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Barclays - Dallas, TX
Barclays is a British multinational banking & financial services company headquartered in London. It is a universal bank with operations in retail, wholesale and investment banking, as well as wealth management, mortgage lending and credit cards.  Responsibilities: • Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents gathering. • Preparing the Design Documents and analyzing the functional specifications. • Involved in the table design. • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO. • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server. • Used Abates to populate the data from the Database. • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. • EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic. • Developed the application using Spring MVC, Servlets and JSP pages for authentication. • Responsible for developing GUI / user interfaces using JSP, CSS&DHTML. • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server. • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing. • Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data. • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML. • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using JUnit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium. • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking. • Used CVS for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing. • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySQL database. • Created files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool. • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components. • Implemented Spring IOC for server side Java components. • Implementing Agile process by managing the daily SCRUM meeting.  Environment: Apache Tomcat server, Struts 1.x, JSTL, CSS, DB2, JSP, JDBC, Taglibs EJB, RAD, J2EE, Java, UML, HTML, CSS, DHTML, ANT, JUnit, Log4j, JavaScript, J2EE Patterns, SQL, MVC, CVS, Agile.
