Senior Java J2EE Developer
Broadridge Financial Solutions Inc
Project Title: Vantra Online Trading System (VOLTS) Client: Broadridge Financial Solution Inc, Glendale CA Environment/Technologies: Spring 3.2.14, Spring MVC, Struts v1.2, EJB 3.0, Hibernate, Restful web services , JDBC3, Ajax, YUI, Ant, Tiles, Log4j, SVN, Sonic MQ 8.0, IBM MQ 8.0, MySQL, Hadoop (HDFS & MapReduce), Pig, Hive, HBase,  Sqoop, ZooKeeper, Maven, jQuery, JDK1.6, JBoss-eap-5.1.0, Eclipse v3.2.1 Project Description: The Vantra Online Trading System (VOLTS) is an online securities trading system supports traditional broker/advisor businesses as well as direct-to-consume brokerage services. Stocks, mutual funds, options and bonds are all supported; real-time account information and portfolio positions are maintained and order execution is seamlessly integrated and monitored. Responsibility: • Develop new modules as per the business strategy. • Customize the features of VOLTS application as per the client need. • Create high level designs for some modules which describe required interfaces. • Analyze and understand the requirements. Provide estimates for the implementation. • Provided technical leadership, mentorship and guidance to the team. Perform design and code reviews for various modules. Perform Unit, Functional and System testing of the application. • Develop Front-end Tier using JSP, struts tag library and JSTL and Business Tier using EBJ3.0 Stateless Session Beans and Entity Beans. • UI rewrite using Spring MVC. • Developed JAX-WS and RESTful web service clients to integrate with third-party applications using XML and JSON • Exported the analyzed data to the relational databases MySQL using Sqoop into HDFS for visualization and to generate reports for the BI team. • Installed, configured and maintained Hadoop clusters for development. • Created HBase tables to load large sets of structured data. • Created PIG script jobs in maintaining minimal query optimization. • Managed and reviewed Hadoop logs and generate reports on the data. • Worked on creating MapReduce jobs in Java to parse the data for Portfolio and Performance report generation • Cluster co-ordination services through ZooKeeper. • Developed workflow in Oozie to automate the tasks of loading the data into HDFS and pre-processing with Pig. • Coordinate with other development teams in order to stay up to date on new client request and implementation of the releases. • Provide the release and installation documents to system. Coordinate with Development team on implementation of new VOLT release. • Support sales and marketing by describing VOLT architecture to potential clients. Ensure work orders are processed efficiently and according to specifications. Ensure system documents are kept up to date. • Provide continuous support and enhancements to applications.
