Java Developer
First Republic Bank
FRB is one of the premier financial institutions in the United States. FRB serve millions of consumers, small businesses and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients and is the leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. The U.S. consumer and commercial banking businesses serve customers under its brand.  Responsibilities: • Actively involved in design and developing of J2EE components. • Worked on writing the services to provide the relational mapping between the client side applications with the backend. • Worked on Spring MVC as web framework and Spring to develop light weight business component. • The business logic is developed using J2EE framework and deployed components on Application server where Eclipse was used for component building. • Worked on Hibernate ORM tool for the backend development in the persistence tier. • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML and integrating the modules and used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP. • Used SOAP, WSDL and implementation of code templates generate WSDL file, and serialization files. • Implements RESTful services to make use of standards like HTTP, JSON and XML. • Actively involved in deployment Application war files in WebLogic Application server. • Deployed the application on WebLogic server to make the application multi-platform. • Used XSLT stylesheets to transform database-driven XML into HTML pages. • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate components and render retrieved information using Session Facade. • Involved in writing the Gradle build file for assembling web services. • Used Hibernate for object relational mapping. • Used Selenium Testing to find the internal defects. • Involved actively in designing web page using HTML, Backbone, JQuery, JavaScript, Ext.JS, Bootstrap and CSS. • Worked on various data sources like SQL Server and DB2. • Implemented logging using log4j and developed robust exception handling and error reporting mechanism.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP, EJB 3.0, JMS, JDBC, HTML, XML, XSL, CSS, JavaScript, Rational Rose, Eclipse, WebLogic, Oracle 11g.
