Java Developer
Buffalo, NY
Responsibilities: • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate. • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript. • Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages on the queue. • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, and JQuery. • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser. • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation. • Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views. • Developed the CRUD API using Restful Web Services • Involved in the development of SQL, PL/SQL packages, stored Procedures. • Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC. • Consumed Web Services using Apache CXF framework for getting remote information. • Developed Rest architecture based Web Services to facilitate communication between client and servers. • Created Web Services using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts. • Using Java Messaging Service JMS for messaging, configured queues and topics on the WebLogic Application Server and used them for messaging. • Performed general Sharepoint IDE/Clearcase/Clearquest administration. • Wrote unit testing of various components layer with JUnit framework. • Manage multiple, high profile cross-functional AGILE program teams across various business units. • Identified Requirements done the design and development of use cases using UML. • Responsible for developing GUI / user interfaces using JSP, CSS & DHTML. • Presentation tier was developed using JSP, JSTL, Java Script, and HTML. • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework. • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process. • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library. • Designed and developed client and server components of an administrative console for a business process engine framework using Java, Google Web Toolkit and Spring technologies. • Worked with ILogJrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server. • Designer and Architect of SOA Governance (Oracle enterprise repository) and Wiki plug-in development for O2 UK Repository search engine and SOA Shop for Services.  Environment:
