Quality Assurance Engineer / Mobile Tester
COMCAST - Philadelphia, PA
Serve as a key member of software development team as Sr. QA Mobile Tester for various Comcast CIM and TVXQA Mobile App projects such as, Xfinity TV, Xfinity TV Go, Xfinity Remote on both iOS and Android Platforms. Collaborate with Product and Development teams to identify product and gather technical requirements for all new  upcoming features and verifies requirements and design specifications for validity in overall product design, with an emphasis towards product testability.  Responsibilities: • Worked on different Application on both iOS and Android platform. • Worked as QA Lead for Off Shore team and coordinate with them in US and Indian timing and keep them up-to-date with all the priorities and deadlines. Answer all the technical questions they have related to project and upcoming releases, blockers and other escalated issues • Created and updated test plans , test cases for  manual execution • Created Feature Files for stable features of application for Automation. • Extensively used Git Hub , Ruby Mine, DDMS and Logcat. • Extensively worked on Trello cards for tracking the progress of new features and testing as per requirements • Extensively worked on various tools like CHARLES, Fiddler, Wireshark and implemented the same tools in testing which increased the negative testing coverage to a great extent. • Extensive Experience in defect reporting and bug tracking using Rally, Jira. • Extensively worked on running automation test scripts and debugging failed scripts by verifying failure errors for various applications for iOS and Android • Extensively worked on all devices having  iOS 5.x ,6.x, 7.x ,8.x, 9.x and for Android OS 3.x, 4.x, 5.x - all L and M OS versions available. • Working with team to migrate all CIM projects from HP QC to ZEPHYR (presently going on) • Hands on experience and good working knowledge of Ruby, Python, Unix • Hands on experience and good working knowledge of Calabash - Cucumber Framework • Prepared Test Data and executed Test Cases from HP ALM/Quality Center • Liaison between various teams within CIM QA - Mobile QA, Middleware, QA and DB • Used HP QC and Jira bug tracking tool to report application bugs and enhancements request and discussed with developers to resolve technical issues • Hands on experience and working knowledge of Splunk • Worked on fetching the required results from provided feed using Python • Performed browser compatibility and configuration testing • Effectively worked with developers for fixing and reproducing intermittent defects • Documented software defects using bug tracking system and reported defects involving program functionality, output, online screen and content • Extensively worked on positive/negative, functional/regression, interface, batch testing, screen navigational testing, smoke/sanity testing, exploratory testing, Backend testing, Video / Audio , Bandwidth, formal and API testing • Worked independently resolving all issues • Worked on various Middleware, API and Cross Platform service related deployments • Implemented the targeted regression testing for faster App delivery • Extensively worked on triaging defects, early, system, regression and data interface testing. Provided client developer teams with detailed reports on quality metrics, identified bugs/flaws and recommended fix • Worked on performing end-to-end User Acceptance Testing (UAT). • Involved in maintaining Test Matrix and Traceability Matrix and performed Gap Analysis • Hands on experience and good working knowledge of API testing and data issues using Python • Worked independently and resolved many connectivity issues between Set Top Box and applications successfully  Environment: Jira, Charles, Fiddler , Rally , HP QC, ZEPHYR, XML, UNIX, X Code, Core Java, iOS, Blackberry OS, Android OS, Android SDK, Ruby  Calabash-Cucumber, Jira, Git Hub,  etc.
