Java Developer/Architect
Stories Khazana Boise
Senior Java Developer Project: -   DIGS Content Migration Responsibilities: Stories Khazana (www.storieskhazana.in) is an ecommerce business website that operates worldwide. Stories Khazana is the web application built on Java, Documentum and web related technologies. This e-commerce solution enhance the usability value of online store for our customers and we offer a range of new features and tools like - Search, Secure Payment Gateway, and Call to Action Buttons, Smooth Order Process, Help & Tool Tips and User Friendly Navigation for the convenience of online merchants.  Responsibilities: • Involved in Design, Development, Unit testing and Integration of the project. • Worked closely with the Business Analyst for requirement gathering making designs and implement the solutions. • Implemented admin configuration where users can reorder fields, remove fields or even add new fields for products. • Developed Search page with Documentum customization. • Involved in writing DQL's API's. • Involved in design and creation of object model for the project. • Created Custom Workflows & Lifecycles based on business requirements using Process Builder. • Involved in developing TBO's and SBO's using Business Object frame work. • Implemented login page, description page, payment page, and history page of customer. • Developed workflow configurations by creating add to cart and submit order pages. • Gather information about visitor behavior on website by implementing cookies of the user & improve their experience by showing the similar pages related to their search. • Designed and implemented layer for accessing application reference data from database using Entity Beans. • Designed and implemented new Gift-Card Project so that people can use giftcard for online shopping. • Created tables, procedures and functions in the database. • Rational ClearCase is used for version control and clear quest is used for defect logging, Quality Center is used to fix and control the requirements from design to UAT testing. • Troubleshoot, escalate and respond to product support requests from Clients and sales teams. • Conducted code review for team members, involved in Unit testing. Prepared Code Documentation for future reference and upgrades. • Develop materials and documentation.
