Java/J2EE Developer
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
Responsibilities: • Involved in the SLDC (Software Development Life Cycle) Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing. • Involved in SDLC, of application developed using AGILE methodology. • Strong Experience in developing the application using frameworks like Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF) and Spring frameworks. • Making heavy use of jQuery, and lighter use of AngularJS, in the front-end UI. • Working with oracle 10g to expose and read data from external database. • Designed and developed the business logic for service, controller and data access components using JSP and Servlets. • Responsibilities include installing and administrating of CGI scripts, webserver authentication and file system access control. The CGI scripts typically require site customization and they receive a rigorous security review. Additional crons/CGIs for extranets with special server, mailback or registration requirements are developed. • Written various Test Cases and also did Unit Testing. • Implementation and deployment of Drupal CMS for customers. • Utilize Struts (MVC2) framework and developed JSP pages, Action Servlets and XML based action-mapping files for web tier. • Developed and Created custom Web forms in Javascript /ASP with Access backend. • Configuration of Tomcat for the application on Win NT server. • Used Java script for validation of page data in the JSP pages. • Designed and developed java based web application using Tapestry 4.2 framework, JSP, Struts, Eclipse IDE, Web Logic server, internal maps API. • Designed CSS for application to support cross browsers • Designed and developed new pluggable components for our applications. • Developed frameworks for our applications using a best practices and design patterns like MVC. • Extensively worked on various enhancements, bug fixes and migrations.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.6, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, Web Services Description Language (WSDL), JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, CVS, WebLogic Application Server 10.3, Rational Rose for UML modeling, JUnit, Oracle 10g.
