Java/J2EE Developer
Nordstrom - Seattle, WA
Responsibilities: • Developed and designed the front end using HTML, CSS and JavaScript with JSF Ajax and tag libraries. • Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and spring frameworks. • Involved in development of presentation layer using JSP, JMS and Servlets with Development tool Eclipse IDE. • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database. • Designed and developed Hibernate configuration and session-per-request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively by using the drools fusion. • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality. • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade. • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module. • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection using Angular JS. • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Web logic Spring framework and maven using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IoC). • Used HQL , SQL, Oracle for fetching and storing data in databases. • Designed and developed the Validations, Controller Classes and Java bean components. • Used XML/XSL and Oracle ADF, PL/SQL Parsing using both SAX and DOM parsers. • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third party • Implemented web services with Apache Axis • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database. • Used Apache Ant for the build process. • Used ClearCase for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, Servlets, Hibernate 3.2, JPA 2.0, Spring 2.5, JSF beans, JSF Ajax, Oracle 10g, Eclipse 3.4, EJB 3.0, Apache Ant, MVC, Web Services, Apache Axis 2.0, WebSphere6.1, JMS, JSF Taglibs, JavaScript, HTML,  CSS, XML, ClearCase, Clear Quest.
