Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Lincoln Financial Group - Fort Wayne, IN
Lincoln Financial Group is a Fortune 500 company offering a diverse range of financial services and solutions. With a strong focus on four core business areas  -  life insurance, annuities, retirement plan services, and group protection  -  our business is built around supporting, preserving, and enhancing our customer's lifestyles and providing better retirement outcomes.  Responsibilities: • Developed several web pages using JSP/Servlets/J2EE/AJAX/Web Services (SOAP/REST) • Involved in development of Web Service (RESTful,/SOAP) using JAX-WS and JAX-RS • Developed web components using MVC pattern under Struts framework. • Used Spring and Hibernate to link the Dao classes to Oracle tables. • Involved in developing the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers. • Used JavaScript for client-side validation and Struts Validator Framework for form validations. • Migrated the Servlets to the Spring Controllers and developed Spring Interceptors, worked on JSPs, JSTL, and JSP Custom Tags. • The front-end JSP pages were developed using the Struts framework, and were hosted in a J2EE environment on a Apache tomcat server. • Developed and flexible, scalable, utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework. • Involved in Analysis Design and Development, Testing and Production Support. • Involved in Requirements Gathering and preparation of System Requirements specification Document. • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML5 and CSS and JSP. • Developing the back end part with Hibernate persistence framework • Integrate JMS technology. • Used Apache Tomcat for deploying of server-side J2EE components. • Worked with the development team to create appropriate cloud solutions for client needs. • Creating JUnit test case design logic and implementation throughout application. • Configuring Hibernate, mapping and creation of mapping using RAD. • Designed the front end applications using JavaScript, HTML5 & CSS. • Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using WSDL messages, such as Submitting the order to downstream, Getting the status on the same, etc. Used Apache AXIS for creating the Web Services. • Used Oracle 10g as the backend database. Involved in creating the PL/SQL scripts for the database. Used Stored Procedures in the application. • Written SQL queries, stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure. • Used Log4J for logging. • Used CVS for version control and used Eclipse for development.  Environment: Java/ Jdk 1.5/1.6, JavaScript, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, SOAP, REST, Oracle10g, SQL, Ant, CVS, XML, HTML, HTML5, SAX, Web Services, WSDL, CSS, Windows.
