Sr. Java Developer
Firestone Diversified Products - Indianapolis, IN
Description: Firestone Diversified Products, LLC is an umbrella company that houses Firestone Building Products, Firestone Specialty Products, Firestone Industrial Products Company, and Firestone Natural Rubber Company. .Firestone Diversified Products is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana and operates in 23 U.S. states as well as 10 countries worldwide  Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development and Production rollout. • Involved in design and development of UI component using frameworks Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap. • Followed Single Page Application (SPA) Pattern and used AngularJS MVC to build a cross-browser complaint application. • Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Templates and Services. • Worked on Bootstrap framework to create responsive design, which could make the web page to appear more appropriately on different devices and screen resolutions without any change in mark-up. • Used Spring as an application framework to build the Services layer and implemented its core modules such as Spring Core Container, Inversion of Control, Data Access and MVC. • Developed end-to-end composite RESTFUL Web Services by using SOA with CXF framework. • Worked on UNIX nodes in production environment to configure the applications and run the jobs. • Used Oracle as transactional/real time DB for the application and worked with Hibernate as ORM tool to interact with database. • Used Apache Tomcat and Jetty as application servers to handle the deployments of different applications. • Generated SOAP Web Services through WSDL using Apache Axis2 to interact with external endpoints from other components. • Written unit tests using frameworks TestNG & JUnit and, used Mockito to mock objects as part of testing. • Used GitHub as Version control for code repository and Jenkins for continuous integration. • Worked with QA team for testing and resolving defects in different level of application cycle such as DEV, QA and PROD. • Worked within agile methodology and used JIRA for scrum and sprint cycle management. Environment: Java 1.7, Angular JS, Bootstrap 3.3, Spring 4.0, Web Services (RESTFUL & SOAP), Oracle 11g, Hibernate 4.2, SQL, Apache CXF, MVC, JSON, JAXB, Unix, Linux, Mockito, TestNG, Log4J, Apache Tomcat, Jetty, Maven 3.0, Jenkins, GitHub, JIRA.
