Sr. Java J2EE Developer
Citigroup - Fort Mill, SC
ORR (Optima Retail Risk): ORR is a regulatory reporting tool that provides risk management data, analytics and reports for Global Consumer Bank Risk management function based on account level data. It also provides standardized and centralized collection and enrichment of account level data to support regulatory reporting, risk management policy oversight and day-to-day business management.  Responsibilities • Configure Oracle Times Ten in-memory database for loading data into memory for faster running of queries • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application. • Design classes in backend to process various requests from front end and to generate responses using Servlets, core java and PL/SQL. • Analysis of HTTP requests and responses using proxy tools to identify security issues and to design and develop the solutions to resolve the same. • Used the Inversion of Control module of spring framework • Preparing DB scripts and PL/SQL programming to resolve DB related production issues. • SQL Query tuning to enhance performance of application in production environments. • Developed the Persistence Layer using Hibernate. • Involved in the Development of Framework Controllers using Spring. • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-mvc. • Configured the URL mappings and bean classes using Springapp-servlet.xml • Worked on the consumption side of RESTful services • Expertise in UI debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools. • Extensively used Spring IOC, AOP concepts and used Spring MVC framework to develop the application. • Used Business Delegate, Singleton, Front Controller, Factory and DAO design patterns. • Used EJB Session beans to expose the application for the use by the third party users. • Used MDB's to read the messages from JMS queues for asynchronous communication. • Used JMS (JAVA Mail API), and implemented an automated functionality to generate e-mails. • Used Multithreading and Concurrency, and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails. • Experience working with Java NIO (vectored I/O, memory mapped I/O, non-blocking sockets, etc.) and memory management. • Worked on the consumption side of REST based Web Services using AXIS. • Used Hibernate for implementing the persistence mechanism in the application. • Involved in using JPA (Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO (Java Data Objects) and Hibernate • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping • Developed few stored procedures, triggers and sequences on Oracle 11g. • Used Unix commands to go through the server logs and identify the issues • Used SVN, Clear Case as version management tool • Implemented several design patterns like Singleton, MVC and Factory design patterns • Created a tool to compare results of two queries from two different data sources • Wrote test cases using TestNG  Environment: Java 1.6, Spring 3.0, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Tomcat 7, Oracle 11g, Oracle Times Ten, Eclipse, SVN, Maven 3.0, Web Services, REST.
