Java/J2EE Developer
Nike - Portland, OR
Description: Nike is the global no. 1 manufacturer of apparels and sports accessories. It has many direct retails stores, online stores and warehouses. This project is to maintain the inventory management system and provide few other services to the user. Responsibilities: • Developed customer portals using SpringMVC and Groovy, leveraging MVC architecture. • Used free marker, JSP as the presentation technology for rendering view. • Used Angular.Js with the combination of SpringMVC to make the UI more responsive. • Used Bootstrap along with Angular.js to develop the portal. • Used 'ngClass' directive to dynamically set CSS classes on an HTML element by binding an expression that represents all classes to be added. • Used groovy for its dynamic capabilities. • Developed controllers to render the view based on the request URL. Used render keyword to follow convention based rendering. • Used Dynamic Scaffolding concept to create the code at runtime. • Used Spring ORM along with Hibernate Query Language for querying, persisting, manipulating the data. • Developed DAO objects and Persistence logic for interacting with the database using Spring ORM. • Extensively used Groovy's GPath string to manipulate the result set. • Implemented complex validations using Groovy in different tiers of application. • Used different XML parsers classes in groovy to extract the data from XML files. • Developed RESTful Web services using JAX-RS complaint Jersey Framework. • Used various annotations such as @Path, @PathParam, @Consumes, @Produces, and HTTP verbs • JAXB Marshalling/UnMarshalling is performed. • Used Ant tool to build the application and Weblogic server (11g) to deploy the application • Strictly followed Test-driven Development (TDD) approach using Agile Methodologies. • Used JBoss Drools for building knowledge bases with rules to be fired when application is launched. • Developed Logging setup using Log4J framework. • JUnit4 is used to performing Java Unit testing. • Refactoring code and Performance tuning the JVM and refactoring the logic. • Participated in technical design review sessions to finalize on the design of application and prepared design documents using Class and Sequence Diagrams.  Environment: Java, Groovy, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, JSP, XML Parser, RESTful - WS, Jax- RS, Jersey, JAXB, DAO, Log4j, JVM, Hibernate, HQL, HTTP, JDK, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JDBC, Drools
