Software Development Project Manager
Opus Inspection - New York, NY
Opus Inspection is a global leader in safety/emissions testing and vehicles data management system. • Manages and mentors three direct reports on performance and skill-set improvement. Delegates tasks to teams to achieve milestones. Supervised career progression of individuals' in-line with their goals. • Successfully executes multi millions dollar enterprises large scale projects on time and within budget. • Leads a Joint Action Development (JAD) to collect and negotiates the requirements with State/Federal government agencies. • Focuses on customers' retention with long-term relations and acquisition on new customers • Negotiates with software and hardware vendors on long-term and cost-effective SLA and contracts. • As a PMO stakeholder, negotiated with higher managements and customers to ensure project scope does not influence budget and timeline. • Headed, orchestrated and implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for all customers. As the result, it reduces cost of enhancement, support and bolsters the customers' contentment. • Acts as a liaison and establishes a reciprocity relationship among cross-functional teams to remove obstacles from software product development. • Institutes Software development life cycle processes including requirements gathering, analysis and design, development tools and technologies, release, version control, and support to all projects. • Led an effort to replace waterfall methodology by Agile-Scum methodology that drops development and QA estimates by 20-30%. • Set and manage expectations of internal and external stakeholders. Align team members with project manager to ensure completion of work against these expectations. • Establishes guideline to control all risks of projects and handles it up to the end of life of projects. Major Projects: 1) New York (NY) Analyzer Management System (Project cost 60-80 million US$) Vehicle Information database system, maintains a 13 million vehicles in entire NY State for emission compliance and renewal of registration and program management under supervision of DMV. 2) New York Taxi and Limousine Commission (NYTLC) (Project cost 10 million US$) Emission Inspection system for automotive sector using advanced test workstation computer systems, wireless handheld computers, host computer system, advanced database and modern networking. The NYTLC inspection system should provide unmatched system speed, functionality and performance for emission inspection system to perform the test for the vehicle on regular basis.  It is built upon open standard architecture and technologies, thus ensuring future expandability at low costs. VID is based on Microsoft .NET XML architecture while incorporating a sophisticated RDBMS for Online Transaction Processing (OLTP), as well as Online Analytical Processing (OLAP). OLTP databases are best used for transactions and user updates. OLAP databases are specifically designed for analytical/reporting requirements.. 6) Bermuda Centralized Analyzer System (BCAS) (Project cost 16 million US$) BCAS, emission analyzer system, gathered emission data from motorcycles/Passenger cars/Trucks vehicle in the Bermuda under guidance of Transport Control Department (TCD).
