Quality Analyst
Life Lock Inc - Tempe, AZ
Life Lock Inc. is an American identity theft protection company based in Tempe, Arizona. The company offers the Identity theft protection system, which is intended to detect fraudulent applications for various credit and non-credit related services. Billing -II: Goal of this project is to integrate a new billing system that would enable its business to accurately forecast and bill members while keeping with Life lock's growing member base. The billing system will need to support billing functions such as for recurring billing, incentives, dunning, account updater, gift certificates, etc. Responsibilities: • Worked in Agile software development methodology. • Involved in creation of Test plan and responsible for creating Test scenarios and Test cases for testing the User Stories. • Created and maintained server side integration tests - Java and Selenium Web Driver running with every build (Jenkins). • Tested API's for web services, enhanced the Test harness and developed many Test suites using XML and Java. • Performed backend testing in Oracle /SQL Server My SQL database and analyzed the log files for different error codes • Performed black box testing, white box testing and support in UAT • Involved in developing automation framework (POM). • Used Build tool Ant & Maven for build and deploy purposes • Developed manual test cases using excel and exported into QMetry. • Executed the manual test cases and reported the results in QMetry • Worked on QMetry for test case management and used JIRA to report/track all issues and defects and for Scrum management • Conducted Knowledge Transfer sessions for QA team members • Co-ordinate with offshore team members, explaining them the User Stories, scope of the stories and helped them in solving their issues • Interacted with developers to follow up on Defects and actively participated in enhancements review meetings. • Participated and reported status in all test-related team meetings.  • Environment: Selenium Web Driver Suit, Python, TestNG, Selenium Grid, Quick Test Pro, QMetry, JIRA, SOAP UI, XML, MS Project Plan, UML Tools, Oracle 11g/12c, SQL developer, MSOutlook
