iOS and Javascript Intern
Visual BI Solutions Inc
Customized an existing iOS application, SAP BusinessObjects Mobile, based on client's requirement.  Objective C, XCode • Developed custom chart components for SAP Design Studio.  Agile, Eclipse, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS, Git • Also supervised the task of peer review testing. iPhone/iPad Application Developer, Target Soft Systems, India. March - August 2013 •    Designed an iOS application, In Case of Emergency (ICE) Lite, to aid victims suffering cardiac arrest to transmit their current location via GPS to any desired number by merely opening the application.  SCRUM, Objective C, JSON, XCode, SQLite  PROJECTS: Secure Cloud File Sharing - Built an application that provides extra security feature to the shared links of the Dropbox documents by adding expiry time to those links.  Eclipse, Java and Dropbox Cloud API Calculator in iOS - Implemented a scientific postfix calculator application with all the necessary functionality for iOS devices. Swift, XCode Library Management System - Developed an Android application to perform check-in/check-out of books, creating and deleting memberships, and authenticating members of the library.  Android SDK, Eclipse, Java, SQLite Google File System - Implemented a highly fault tolerant file system on top of existing Linux File Architecture to process and store large number of data and provide high availability of information at all times.  Eclipse, Java, Socket Programming Total Ordered Multicast - Established multicast messaging service in a mesh topology which guarantees to deliver messages in total order using Skeen's algorithm.  Eclipse, Java, Socket Programming Fault Tolerance Distributed System - Enforced fault tolerance in a distributed environment by utilizing Dynamic Voting Protocol in order to perform read and write operations without any conflict. Replica consistency is also achieved.  Eclipse, Java, Socket Programming Spatial Information Retrieval System - Built an information retrieval system that uses incremental index and relevance model to retrieve document based on spatial information.  Eclipse, Java, Apache Lucene, Wordnet and JAWS API Circulation of Tokens in Distributed System - Implemented a mechanism in which every process circulates a token through the system that visits every other processes and computes the sum of all tokens along the way.  Eclipse, Java, Socket Programming IP Mobility Support - Implemented a mobile IP protocol to provide solution for the problem of routing and tunneling packets to the mobile host.  Netbeans IDE, Java  WORK AUTHORIZATION: F1 Visa
