Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Avaya - Irving, TX
Responsibilities: • Developed and Enhanced application banking application on Spring MVC Framework. • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO. • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML. • Java/JSP development experience, including web services, OSGi, JCR, and Sling • Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC. • Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. • Extensive experience in J2EE, C++, C, Java Servlets, Java Swing, AWT, JSPs, XML/XSL, DHTML, Oracle, JDBC, UNIX and MS-Windows NT/98/2k • Automated the build process using ant and shell script • Experienced in Multithreading programming in C++, C#. Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications. • Extensive Object Oriented Development OOD experience. • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database. • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. • Used Javascript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework. • Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit. • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. • Prepared the use case document and the high level design. Created the UI using the HTML and JSP and used Object Oriented JavaScript as the scripting language. • API development experience in C++, C# • Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA. • Application Servers: Dynamo Application and Personalization Server. 4.5.1 & 5.0 , Weblogic Application Server 6.0, Portal 4.0, and IBM Web sphere. Designed and implemented an internal customer management solution using the following technologies: J2SE JDK1.3.1 , J2EE 1.2 , XML, BEA Weblogic 5.1, and Oracle 8 • The presentation layer in the target architecture was developed using JSPs and servlets. • These web components then communicated with the business logic stored on • WebSphere application server as EJBs and JavaBeans. The middle-tier also communicates with other CICS Cobol business modules running on a mainframe environment via IBM s ECI Extended Call Interface middleware. • Automated the build process using ant and shell script Used JSTL , JQuery , Node.js and Spring tags in the JSP pages. • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations • Test the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the GreenBox response data and Mongo DB data. • Developed JUnit test cases to validate the Restful services. Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap • Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery & Knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap. • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers. Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence. • Implement multi-tier MVC-like architecture utilizing J2EE components such as JSPs, Servlets, stateless Session EJBs, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, Connection Pools, IBM MQ Series and Sybase RDBMS • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications • Used Apache CXF, Apache Camel, as the Web Services framework to implement the Restful APIs involved • Adobe CQ5 template and component development, initial systems architecture and migration of content from EMC2Documentum to Adobe AEM(CQ5). Site Managed in Adobe AEM(CQ5) In-context Contribution of Content using customized User Interface • Publish Site on Production using Dispatcher • Workflow management for Approve/ Reject cycle. • Involving in regular build and deploy activities in Jenkins and Hudson. • Implemented all the CRUD operations using JPA query language. • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using CSS3 and • HTML5. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript. • Involved in creating user interfaces using Jquery. • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library • Implemented and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper 11g • Implemented Drools as part of business rule implementation for the sales tracking as per the geographical locations. • Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements. • Worked with Subversion source management. • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs. • Designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine. • Utilized Agile Methodology (SDLC) to managed projects • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle. • Involved in user interface development using JSTL. • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports. • Developed a Web 2.0 control console to manage data matching for data staging Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with Ant Script  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, APACHE CXF, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Sencha ExtJS 4.0, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Oracle, ADF, Sybase, CRUD, Cobol, PL/SQL, JIRA, Angular, Knockout JS , JDBC, MongoDB, Backbone.js, Node.js, Adobe (CQ5), Bootstrap, Coherence, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, ITEXT, Subversion, Jasper report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA
