Django Developer
Python
Projects: Full featured open source 3d engine specifically for python but written in c++. Features: performance, multi-platform support, scene graph, export/import pipeline, 3D Audio, collision detection, physics, unusual I/O devices, basic AI library, browser plugin, animations, networking     and many more.  Responsibilities: • Used the Django Framework to develop the application. • Used Django APIs for database access. • UIS system design (Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.) • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files. • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates. • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling. • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra. • Performed Design and Code reviews. • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.. • Built application logic using Python 2.7. • Used the Django Framework to develop the application. • Used Django APIs for database access. • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files. •Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in python. •Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml/etree libraries; •Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries • Wrote unittest cases for testing tools. • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Performed optimization of test server by implementing multiprocessing for the caching system. Improved user experience.
