Senior Java/J2EE Developer
Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH
Operating Systems Windows 7  Programming Languages : JDK 1.6, JDBC, J2EE (Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JSP Taglibs), Spring 3.2.8, Struts 1.1, Hibernate 3.2, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XSL, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, Junit, AMPScripts, Razor Template, Maven.  Tools:  IBM RAD, Apigee Api Management , Mongo DB, IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM WebSphere MQ, XML Spy, Exact Target, Soap UI, Tridion 2013, ExactTarget, SDL Tridion.  Responsibilities: •    Involved in redesign and enhancement of call management system which existed in struts to be replaced by spring 3. •    Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate 3 to persist the data and to manage the data / •    Used agile process to streamline development process and it includes daily scrum with team.  •    Used spring framework's Dependency Injection (IOC) framework to configure application components. •     Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL. •    Worked on consuming soap and restful webservices to interact with the third party applications via SOA.  •    Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JSF, JavaScript (JQuery). •    Develop responsive webpage using HTML5, CSS3 so it would render similar across all browsers and devices. •    Used Rational Application Developer, SQL Developer, SVN etc.  •    Worked on WCM tool SDL Tridion to create responsive web page using razor template. •    Used Grunt and scss to create modular JavaScript and css. •    Used Salesforce Marketing tool Exact Target to trigger emails and also create responsive email template using ampscript. •    Used maven for building and deploy applications. •    Used Log4J API for logging and debugging. •    Testing of individual components (unit test) and fix issues to achieve better delivery quality as per customer quality guideline. •    Building application and deployment in servers as per request from the qa team.  •    Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used
