Sr. Java Developer
Ventyx - Sugar Land, TX
Project: OMI, netCADOPS  Description: Network Manager DMS consists of two main modules, ORMap and OMI. ORMap provides a visual display of the power distribution grid assembled from database data, along with visual icons that describe power network components, crews, various kinds of outages, and the status of each. The OMI (Operations Management Interface) is a set of Java-based applications that allow users to view and work with large amounts of database data in various ways, through the use of status lists and detail windows and, when necessary, to update that data. Operators and dispatchers can use Network Manager DMS to perform various switching, analysis and planning functions Operators can use the netCADOPS user interface or an existing call handling system to enter customer call information. The outage engine reads call information from the database and creates probable and verified outages. The outage engine suggests possible locations of outages based on information in the trouble reports. Responsibilities: • Involved in Analysis, design, development of OMI. • Involved in Development and Maintenance of netCADOPS application • Worked with PSO Team During Pre-FAT and Regression provided the initial analysis on the issues Raised during Pre-FAT and Regression • Worked on the enhancements for different customers. • Involved in performance testing. And addressed issue with the slow application load times. And provide fixes to Application freezing during load • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing. Also involved in creating load simulator to re- create the load scenarios with configurable parameters no of messages per second no of calls, outages etc. • Maintenance & Support of the existing Customers • Work with support and maintenance teams to diagnose and solve issues after production deployment. • Involved in quality processes like documentation review, code review, and creation and updating the project system Documentation. • Involving in the development and testing of the change requests. • Providing technical leadership and guidance to the team • Acted as advisor and mentor to new or existing lower level analysts. • Co-ordinate with end users in resolving issues or solving critical tasks. • Co-ordinating with the upstream and downstream applications whenever required.  Environment: Core java, Collection frame work, Multi-Threading, JMS, Java Swing, PL/SQL, HTML Java Script, MQ Server, Tomcat
