Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
The Private Bank - Chicago, IL
Responsibilities: • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) . Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings. • Designed and developed the User Interface components using Spring and maintained the session with Session Beans. • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents. • Implemented JAXB in XML binding. • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging (database) and logging using Spring AOP. • Data from UI layer sent through JMS to Middle layer and from there using MDB message retrieves Messages and will be sent to MQSeries. • Used JSON as response type in REST services • Developed Data Access Objects (DAO's) for interacting with the database using JDBC. • Involved in developing Stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle 10g. • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database. • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy. • Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file. • Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue. • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1. • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using REST • Performed application performance tuning using JProfiler. • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application. • Hands-on experienced working with version controller tools such as ClearCase and Clear Quest as issue tracking software. • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping • Used Subversion for version control and created automated build scripts. • Performed unit testing using JUnit. • Handled production support of the application. • Documented the flow and functionality of the code for further reference.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, AJAX, Spring, JMS, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, EJB, CVS, CSS, MVC, JDBC, J Profiler, Oracle 10g, XML, MVC, Hibernate, MQSeries, WebSphere, JUnit, Subversion, JProfiler, Ant, ClearCase, Clear Quest.
