JAVA / J2EE Programmer
CVS Caremark - Woonsocket, RI
Responsibilities: • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack. • Involved in developing Classes diagram in UML showing generalization and other relationships, Sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time. • Application was designed and developed using the Spring framework • Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services • Wrote and converted HQLs for services and testing • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to connect with Oracle database • Consumed WSDL provided by Web Service using SOAP protocol to communicate with external applications and vendors • Worked on JBoss locally and Websphere in higher environments • Used Eclipse as IDE • Used SoapUI to manually connect to the web service and check data • Implemented as well as exposed web services using Apache Axis. • Used Spring aspects for implementing cross cutting functionalities like Caching. • Defined persistent classes that are mapped to database tables based on the analysis of the business domain. • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software. • Implemented Spring MVC Framework. • Used Spring AOP for the transaction management and logging. • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate -- Database connectivity. • Provided production support for the application • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control. • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc. • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases. • Used JSON strings to transfer java object data to Angular JS and vice versa • JIRA was used for bug-tracking • Worked parallel over releases to clean up code and make performance improvements to the application • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File. • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i/10g Database. • Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator (javadoc). • Build ear file with jars and war files releasing for Production.  Environment: Core Java, JDK 1.6, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Apache Axis, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, AGILE/SCRUM Methodology, Javascript, AngularJS, Jquery, JMS, JBoss application server, JDBC, JNDI, XML, XSL, XSLT, WSDL, Log4J, JUnit, SOAP UI, Oracle, PL/SQL,  UNIX.
