Sr Java/J2EE Developer
Ericsson - Plano, TX
Responsibilities:  • Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services. • Worked with Agile Methodology (SDLC), involved in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, product backlogs. • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations, Spring MVC components. • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components. • Implemented Spring controllers with annotations, validations using model attributes to pass request from presentation layer to helper classes. • Implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts. • Integrated Spring with Hibernate using configurations and implemented DAO layer to save entities into data base. • Designed and developed the business logic such as action forms, DAO's Action classes and O/R mapping using technologies such as spring and hibernate on Grails Framework using Groovy. • Responsible for design and developing Persistence classes using Hibernate, and Spring  JDBC Template frameworks to save data in database tables. • Generating Hibernate mapping files and domains using tables. • Implemented Hibernate Inheritance strategies to map relation between tables and configured many-many relationship using Hibernate annotations. • Worked on Mule ESB Integration to integrate external components like JMS Queue and other applications. • Created Restful webservice to server ECU strategy files to Sync my ride website. • Involved in creating/consuming SOAP based web services to expose business operations. • JSF (Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold. • Implemented logging mechanism using log4j. • Used JSF for user interface layer development and tools like Firebug for Web Accessibility • Used Maven tool to build, config, and packaged, deploy an application project and integrated with Jenkins. • Developed Junit test cases to validate the REST services. • Configured managed beans and made available to the application by declaring them in the faces-config.xml configuration file. • Used JAXB to marshal Java object to XML object to put message in message Queue. • Worked on JSON format as well for data transfer  Environment: Spring  Tool Suite, Spring MVC, Hibernate4.3, JSF, Mule ESB, SOAP/ Rest, log4j, Junit, IBM MQ, JMS, JAXB, XML, Ajax, JQuery, Maven and Jenkins.
