Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA
Description: The Reseller solution suite is comprised of real time interactive applications providing flexible provisioning, billing and customer care solutions for various business channel and resellers. Verizon Wireless offers these applications as a competitive advantage to support postpay, prepay, telematics, and M2M reseller enterprises. Managing API and UI transaction requests from external customers and Provisions network services by orchestrating order activity to verizon wireless core systems. The RSS loads, rates and bills external company's network traffic and access charges and invoices. The role involves application maintenance, monitoring and hot-fix of the code for every release of iteration.  Responsibilities: • As part of the team worked on estimate releases, tasks with development manager and allocated work for development and testing team. • Involved in designing the architecture for the project using Spring Framework and Hibernate. • Develop the web application using Spring, JSP, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript • Implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like spring, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object). • Template development for a Java based search platform using JSP/JSTL. • Implementation and designed applications, user interfaces (UI), websites and e-newsletter using cross-browser compatible HTML&CSS, Angular JS. • Extensively used the Tomcat Server for application development and production. • Involved in unit testing, system integration testing and enterprise user testing. • Interacted with the client for gathering the requirements during design, development and implementation phases. • Configured connection pools and establish a connection with MySQL. • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework, Coding involves writing Action Classes/Custom Tag Libraries, JSP. • Developed the user interface modules and designed the front-end web pages using a combination of JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript. • Extensively used Core Java, Servlets, and JDBC • Developed ER and UML diagrams for all the design, and documented all the process flows. • Created the UI interface using JSP, JavaScript's, CSS and HTML. • Used SAX/DOM XML Parser for parsing the XML file. • Developed a web-based application using spring, where users can enter their daily project updates, query etc. Provided a user Login/Logout functionality too. • Create and unit test intricate client side interactions with JQuery. • Developed DAO (Using Hibernate) classes and wrote Sql queries to get data from database. • Developed Jsps and Java classes for various transactional/ non transactional reports of the system using extensive Sql queries. • Worked as a UAT team member in for the successful launch of application. UAT involved bug fixing during testing, deploying the fixes to the system communication with the offshore team etc. • Used SVN for version Controlling Purposes. • Used Restful web service to handle the user requests. • ANT was used for the entire build process. • Working on Linux development environments. • Developed Application using STS IDE.  Environment: J2EE, Java1.5, Spring, JSP, Hibernate, SVN, Java Mail, XML, XSLT, DOM, SAX Parser, JavaBeans, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery, Angular JS, STS, MySQL, Tomcat, Apache Ant, J2EE design patterns, Linux, Restful, Web services.
