Java Developer
Medtronic - Minneapolis, MN
Medtronic is the world's largest standalone medical technology development company. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, Medtronic employs 45,000 people. The company operates regional  and develops, manufactures and markets medical devices in more than 120 countries. The main objective of this project is to develop web applications and data service that deliver advanced health intelligence to patients and health care providers , Enhancement of existing site.  Responsibilities: • Developed a framework for the system using Java, Spring 4.0.5, Spring JDBC 4.0.5, Hibernate 4.3, Java RMI • Unit Testing at all modular levels using JUnit 4.1 • Worked on IBM Jazz platform RTC, RRC. • Has implemented Spring Data, SpringREST in developing a framework. • Used Spring Integration, Spring batch in job execution of a application. • Performance tuning and testing using commercial tool kits such as 'Yourkit' for heap analysis and 'Oracle Enterprise Manager' for database monitoring • Estimated work task breakdowns for weekly sprint activities and drive work using iterative, agile techniques. • Used 'Log4j' to configure the logging of all the levels which were referring to the framework • Dozer mapping to configure data and business objects  using Hibernate. • Involved in developing a framework which was used by the whole system to log every transaction and activity. Drafted all the business and technical documents, implemented and tested the whole system. • Coded for storing as well as retrieving by a dynamic search criteria. It involved JavaScript/JSP development along with using bootstrap and JSTL libraries for a dynamic display. • Implemented different DAO components specific for business entities and nonbusiness entities using helper and façade layers. • Guided all the API users on how to make use of the methods. • Validated the whole system using Java. • Designed a new Exceptional handling framework which could handle system breakout and log the changes into a queue using 'JMS'. • Used EJB calls to get information from the OBMP (oracle Business Process Manager) in the system. • Developed and integrated the stored procedures into the application using 'Spring JDBC'. • Exposed some of the interfaces as web services using 'SOAP' based protocols and 'RESTFUL' web services for external systems. Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring 4.0.5, Hibernate 4.3, Spring AOP 4.0.5, Spring JDBC 4.0.5, Java RMI, JMS, EJB, Web Logic 10.3, Oracle 11g, XML, DOZER mapping, SAX, DOM, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, Java Script, BootStrap, JSTL, JQuery, AJAX,  HTML5, CSS3, ANT and Rational Build Forge, RATIONAL TEAM CONCERT (RTC), Oracle Enterprise Managers (0EM), SOAP UI, Rational Quality Manager.
