Java developer
Clarus Large File Management (LFM)
Developed LFM functionality under Clarus Business Objects Reporting project. The purpose of this project is to provide a more-usable interface to the BusinessObjects-implemented reporting layer. The first cut of this project was delivered using the out-of-the-box BusinessObjects reporting desktop client. This client is meant for power users and is not suitable for "casual" usage. We hope to address this by creating a custom user interface to replace the out-of-the-box client.  Responsibilities: • Generated the user requested WebI file in BOBJ and persisted that to a disk location of one's choosing using SAP BI Launchpad. • Built the LFM front end in compliance with the entire Clarus application using the Backbone-JS and Marionette framework. • Exposed and consumed REST-based Web Services to comply and work with other modules within the cluster of applications on the organization portal. • Coded Bean injection (Dependency Injection) using Spring framework to promote loose coupling. • Obtained the instance ID of a given schedule request, such that the instance ID can be used to generate the corresponding CSV, Excel 2003, and Excel 2007 formats of the schedule request. • Converted the WebI file to CSV, Excel 2003 and Excel 2007 formats and persist those files to disk. • Generated small, medium, and large file in an acceptable performance manner under a load test. • Analyze, Design and fix Data Base structure for SAS (ERD), elaborating documentation and SQL Scripts • Developed functionality to generate a link that when sent in an email, will result in downloading of a given file type. • Integrate MyBatis DAO layer with Spring Framework using MyBatis templates. • Acquired Disk space using the NAS on the VNX.  The NAS/VNX support would be provided by Round Tower. • Wrote a daily purge process to prune the file system daily. • Formalized code organization to comply with the official database design and improved table structure. •  Checked in &out, submit, and clean source code using Tortoise SVN. Environment: Jetty 6.x web server, Run 4.x application server, Aqua Data Studio database client, Sybase, MySQL database server, Java 6, Advanced Rest Client (ARC), JDBC, Servlet 3.0, JSP, JSPX, Node.js, XML, J-Unit, Tortoise SVN version control, SAP BI Launchpad, SLF4J Logger
