Java Developer
Wolters Kluwer Health (Lexicomp)
Lexicomp online is a collection of clinical databases and clinical decision support tools that provides users with a comprehensive medical library. Lexi-Comp provides our content on various handheld platforms (Android, Blackberry, IPhone   ). The online product provides a web-based interface for viewing Lexi-Comp databases.  Along with the ability to view documents from the various databases.  Responsibilities: •  Agile methodology has been followed for this project and I was involved in scrum meetings with end clients. • Played crucial role in requirement analysis, design, development and unit testing of the application• • The major part in the LIMS is the Database, which stores the content in to different tables and LIMS DS servlet, which pulls the data through the queue system and displays as products to different devices. • Lexi-Comp datasets are provided in XHTML format, datasets are parsed using XSL into the format needed by the client • Played major role in transformation of the Lexicomp internal desktop application to Web application using the Spring MVC Model architecture. • Understanding internal application of the functional requirements and prepared a detailed Use Cases and Functional Requirement Documents from the Business Requirements Specifications. • Used Jquery and AngularJS JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations. • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server. • Responsible for creating the database tables on the Oracle database. Wrote complex SQL queries to perform various database operations like create tables, select etc. • Involved in configuring and deploying the application on Glassfish Application server 3.1.1 • .Junit   was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology. • Maven was used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on Glassfish server. Git Pro was used for the version control.  Environment Java, Java Swing , Java Web Start, Spring MVC, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, Jquery, Ajax, AngularJS , Web services , Oracle 10g Database, DB Visualizer used for DB front end access / SQL Developer, Ant,  Glassfish Application server 3.1.1 (Latest Version), CVS , Eclipse and Spring Tool Suite and Git version control.
