Sr. Java Developer
Towers Watson - New York, NY
Description: Towers Watson is a leading global professional services company that helps organizations improves performance through effective people, risk and financial management. With 16, 000 associates around the world, it offers consulting, technology and solutions in the areas of benefits, talent management, rewards, and risk and capital management.  Responsibilities: • Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to comprehend the existing architecture. • Used Spring (MVC) architecture to implement the application using the concrete principles lay down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator. • Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection. • Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework. • Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations. • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data. • Developed the application using Eclipse 3.4 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation, and version control (SVN) • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases. • Worked in Agile development environment. • Asynchronous messaging is executed by utilizing JMS API for point-to-point messaging. • Developed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP to communicate with the other modules. • Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views. • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM. • Used WebLogic Application server to deploy and restart web applications. • Implemented as well as exposed SOAP web services using Apache Axis. • Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, MVC, Builder and Strategy patterns. • Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases using Test Driven Development (TDD) technique.  Environment: JDK 6, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), JMS, JavaScript, JSP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Oracle PL/SQL, Maven, JUnit, Agile/Scrum Methodology, SVN Version Control, Oracle 10g, WebLogic Server, Eclipse IDE, DAO, Design patterns, Log4j.
