Java Developer
Citi Bank - Sioux Falls, SD
The CCER online application system is a product composed of online components and batch components. The CCER system provides access to different functions based on a user's company type, role(s), assignment(s) and privilege(s). Commercial Card is a Real Card has an account number tied to a User (CH/Approver/REC). A CH has a physical card they use for procurement/purchasing, travel and entertainment (T&E) and fleet expenditures, which render in the application as charges.  Responsibilities: ➢ Interacted with customers, CITI team members, identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications. ➢ Involved in design and Development of UI using Form Beans, Component and Action class. ➢ Involved in writing build files for targets like cvs-update, auto-build-deploy and auto-dynamic-deploy. ➢ Developed, coded, tested, debugged and deployed JSP and Components for the input and output forms on the web browsers. ➢ Developed web application using Spring framework. ➢ Created Form Beans accessed from JSP to transfer data to component. ➢ Developed core server side components using J2EE Technologies. ➢ Hibernate frame work is embedded in JAFFA used to map database tables. ➢ Responsible for designing the logical and physical database structure for the Oracle9i. ➢ Customizing the code for non CRUD maintenance pattern ➢ Deployed the application on JBoss4.0.5 GA. ➢ Database Modification using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, Views in Oracle 9i. ➢ Validations like hidden fields are provided using aop. ➢ Responsible for writing ANT scripts get required version from CVS, build the application, and to deploy the application. ➢ Writing script files to run HttpUnit Test cases for all the components daily for delivered modules and monitoring the reports for fixing the failures. ➢ Experience in going through bug queue and assigning bugs to team members, analyzing and fixing bugs, and Filing, following-up, and escalation of bugs. Environment: Java 5, JAFFA, EJB, JDBC, JSP2.0, XML, DTDs, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, MS Office, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Spring MVC Framework, Taglibs, Tiles, and Oracle9i, Web Services, BEA Web Logic 9.1, Web Sphere 5.1, Windows, Unix, Linux.
