Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Intersections, Chantilly, VAApr
Description: Intersections is a financial services holding company specializing in life and supplemental health insurance for middle income Americans, marketed through multiple distribution channels including direct response and exclusive and independent insurance agencies. Our success is earned one family at a time. This project is to migrate the Client's current data center to a new data center called Enterprise Data Center (EDC). During this migration the hardware and middleware software programs would be upgraded too. GBRS (Ground Business Rule Server) is one of the software which serves as a gateway to all domestic call centers and various front end applications in support of ground shipment. We are responsible to migrate existing GBRS which is developed in Smalltalk into Java/J2EE using spring. GBRS contains business rules for creating, updating and cancelling on call pickups and call tags. It provides tracking and proof of pickup information to 1 source. Responsibilities: • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD. • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and integrated Spring, JSF and Hibernate. • Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using Spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project. • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Apache My Faces Components, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans. • Designed & Developed ORM persistence layer using Hibernate framework and JDBC. • Created Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into PL/SQL Database. • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading. • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations. • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages. • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework. • Responsible for writing Java code to convert HTML files to PDF file using Apache FOP. • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS. • Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application. • Used REST and SOAP UI for testing web service for server side changes. • Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time. • Wrote build & deployment scripts using ANT on Linux environment and deployed the application on web logic server. • Developed the Windows and web based Customized GIS software for utility applications of Land Information Systems. Environment: Java/J2EE, JDK1.6, JSP, JSF, My Faces, Prime Faces, Spring, Hibernate, IBM MQ Series, CSS, Web Logic 10,Python, Ant, Clear Quest, Oracle9i, AJAX, JSTL, Eclipse, Junit, JavaScript, Linux, VSS,REST,SOAP.
