Java/J2EE Developer
PPG, Shelby
Project Name: GPS Description: Global Product Stewardship Compliance Management System (GPS) is an web based application used for item transactions. We can do various operations using this user interface like validating the on hand quantity and consume/release the inventory as part of manufacturing. We also schedule the interface jobs to run every night to receive the transacted data from GPS to Oracle. Responsibilities: • Designed and developed the Java-based Object Relational Hibernate persistence framework to persist the business data with database and J2EE based Spring MVC framework. • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, Java Script, Angular JS. • Developed UI forms to validate on hand quantity and consume/release inventory of manufactured products. • Written action class for validating manufacturing inventory. • Configured the crosscutting concerns like logging, security using Spring AOP and Spring Security • Created Service and Controller components. • Worked on default singleton, factory design pattern for single object creation and bean accessing. • Used multiple application contexts XML files for the bean definitions and configuration mappings. • Used Ajax for auto completion functionality for form filling fields and search related pages. • Created database scripts for loading the application parameters in multiple environments. • Applied DAO pattern to separate the persistence logic from the business logic. • Implemented the Spring IOC for the core business application logic using POJOs and used Hibernate as persistence framework. • Wrote Spring configuration file to define beans, define data source and hibernate properties. • Worked on data retrieval, insertion, deletion and updation queries using Hibernate. • Generating labels on each product using Spring-Hibernate integration from Oracle database. • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application and participated in weekly Sprints, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs. • Written Ant scripts to deploy WAR file into application server. • Developed Use case for Customer Management and Inventory Management module. • Created numerous test cases for unit testing of the code using JUnit testing framework. • Used TFS version control tool to check in/out files, etc. also responsible for branching, merging the branch to main repository. • Used Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow. Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, TFS, Web Logic, JUnit, log4j, Maven, Eclipse.
