Sr Java Developer
Hyatt Corporation - Atlanta, GA
Description: Hyatt Analytics team is a versatile, hands-on technical leading group who enhances global market presence for leading software applications, with extensive expertise in scalable, single solution development for diverse customer needs. PRIO (Pricing, Revenue and Inventory Optimization) is Hyatt's Revenue Management System and has been built to support Hyatt revenue management strategies and business practices. It is designed to follow specific workflow steps to generate accurate forecasts and logical recommendations in order to optimize revenue.  Responsibilities: • Developed and supported PRIO application which is a math-core project. • Developed Models, Model alerts and model process with SpringMVCframework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions. • Worked on consuming Restful Web services to obtain data from different modules internally. • Worked with Revenue Analytics to have different processes to review all the Model results, success rates, validate system generated values based on test harness. • Extensive experience with SQL server, Oracle and link servers. • Math-Core logic implemented in R code inside Java Application as a single thread. • Used CPLEX as it provides functionality allowing us to use java objects to build our own optimization model. • Deployed applications using RSERVE as our application represent Java Programs which use R for computation. • Worked on managing, tuning and enhancing the models by periodic review accuracy and data quality check. • Deployed and maintained projects in different environments like DEV, QA, UAT and PROD • Extensively worked with different databases like SQL, PL/SQL, DB2 to tune the models and write different stored procedures. • Followed waterfall methodology in project development. • Used Tableau for generating, extracting and publish different reports to business with data. • Worked on tickets in a bug tracking tool JIRA.  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring MVC, Restful Web Services, Log4j, Maven, R Code, Rserve, CPLEX, Apache Tomcat, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Tableau, JIRA.
