Java Developer
Sky touch Technology - Phoenix, AZ
Description: This is a business application which deals with a property management and rate center system that checks in guests, manage room inventory and adjust rates, and it provides managers with standard industry metrics on occupancy, average daily rates and revenue per available room. The application was developed using Spring MVC based architecture.  Responsibilities: • Developed user interface based on Struts framework using JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript. • Participated in setting up Maven and Ant on systems. • Developed module using Core Java, Multi Threading, XML, Weblogic. • Build and deployed application in Weblogic 10. • Participated in migrating our Informix database over to SQL Server 2014 and made SQL specific changes to the DAOs • Implemented the controllers and service layers in Spring • Handled validations by using Spring validator framework. • Implemented the Singleton, Service Factory, Factory Pattern, Dao Factory and DAO Design pattern's effectively. • Spring 3 Framework was used as MVC architecture • Developed JSP pages with Spring tags for the same and wrote HTML style sheet for front end development. • Front end validations are done using Java script.  • Designed the UI using JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, and DHTML. • Prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades. • Worked on JUnit Test cases for Testing. • Used Subversion, and GIT-Stash which tracks structure of folders, maintains global revision number for the whole repository and SVN operations. • Used Informix and then SQL Server as database and Involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation and using SQL created Select, Update and Delete statements. • Going through the existing application for improvements and enhancements.  Environment: Windows XP, Spring 3, Hibernate 3, J2EE, Java, JSP, Java Script, Informix, SQL Server, Weblogic, Subversion, GIT-Stash, JDBC, AngularJS, JSF, JPA, GlassFish, Apache, JAX-RS, Oracle, Struts2, Bootstrap, EJB, NetBeans, Web logic Application Server 9.1 and JUnit.
