Sr. Java Developer
Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company which is headquartered in San Francisco, California, with "hub quarters" throughout the country EBanking - Wells Fargo is one of the leading financial institutions that offer services like banking, investment and several types of loans in the state of North Carolina. The project ('EBanking') was developed with the aim of providing customers with various online features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts, and personal or Home loan applications.  Responsibilities: • Worked on multiple stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the Agile Software Development Methodology. • Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX, ANJULAR JS • Used Struts and Tiles MVC architecture for the application development in Admin UI module. • Implemented controller classes using Struts API and configured struts action classes and tiles definitions using XML configuration files. • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection. • Used Hibernate ORM module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over Oracle database. • Provided Hibernate configuration file and mapping files, also involved in the integration of Struts with Hibernate libraries. • Provided utility to connect to LDAP to get the user details and the authorized packages. • Developed Web service client interface with JAX-RPC from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP. • Scripted WSDL descriptor file and Universal Description, Discovery and Integration Registry (UDDI) • Deployment of Web services, JSP, Servlets and server side components in Web logic Application server. • Developed Web Services in WSAD • Implemented Struts framework (MVC) and developed Action Servlet and Action Form bean • Implemented Jasper Reporting tools to generate Reports. • Used Ant scripts to build the application and deployed it on Web Logic Application Server. • Extensively used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to integrate widely disparate applications, that are Web based and uses multiple implementation platforms. • Provided SQL scripts and PL/SQL stored procedures for querying the Oracle database. • Managed source repository using CVS version controller tool • Provided JUnit test cases for the application to support the Test Driven Development (TDD) • Worked on QA Testing to ensure the quality of the application. • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system. • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Service Delegator and Data Access Object. • Designed long-term, reliable and adaptive technical architectures and constituted a technical gateway between the project manager and the developers  Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE, Log4j, Spring, Struts, Tiles, Hibernate, Spring, Web services, JAX-RPC, Web Logic  Application Server, Servlets, HTML, JSP, XML, WSAD, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Oracle 10g, Ant, CVS, Windows 2008.
