Sr.Java Developer
Sprint Nextel
Sprint.com helps user to buynew devices, plans, services and accessories. It also enables them to upgrade existing devices, swap current device to an old device, change current plan or service and several other options. All these features on the front end are part of different modules and are managed by different teams. Our team (Catalog team) provides data to these front end modules in the form of REST based APIs.  Responsibilities: Responsibilities: • Done the design, development and testing phases of Software Development using scaled AGILE methodology with Test Driven Development (TDD) • Involved in functional requirements review and creating technical design documents and Integration Solution Design documents. • Implemented the Model View Controller architecture (MVC) by developing controller and service implementation classes. • Extensively worked on Spring framework and integrated Hibernate and also used spring Inversion of controller and Dependency Injection principles. • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs. Developed hibernate mapping and Configuration files. • Designed and implemented REST Web-Services to provide the Payments Settlement functionality comprising Apply Payments, Payments Summary & Details. • Worked with AngularJS filters in expressions and directives to filter data rendered in the UI. • Actively involved in the development of UI using Angular JS, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML and AJAX. • Used Log4j Logger for all logging purposes and JUnit for integrated test runs. • XML for building data structures required for Web Services and JMS for sending async messaging using the Event based Framework. • Involved in unit, system, integration and regression testing. • Participated in the analysis of defects, tracking issues and fixing them using Enterprise Quality Center. • Used the Apache POI API to create the excel spreadsheet for payments and template details related to the transaction. • Involved in SQL development using Stored Procedures, Views and Queries. • Participated in UAT testing and product readiness (production support) • Co-ordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application. • Used SVN the version control tool for code commit and update. • Used MyEclipse IDE and web logic application server in development.  Environnent: Java SE 6, J2EE, Oracle11g, JSP  2.1, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Restful, Weblogic 10.3.3, CSS, JMS, JSTL 1.2, JavaScript, HTML5, Angular JS, PL/SQL, Eclipse 3.7, SVN, Log4j, JUnit 4.1, Apache POI 3.7.
