Java/J2EE Developer
Blue Cross & Blue Shield
Domain: Insurance Description: Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Mississippi is big and broad. The mutual insurance company, which provides health care coverage and related services to members, is the state's largest health plan provider. It is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association with managed care offerings that include group (Network Blue), individual (Blue Care), and supplemental Medicare (Blue 65) health plans. Responsibilities: • Involved in gathering requirements, Analysis, Design, Development and testing of the entire Application. • Extensively used the Struts framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern. • Developed various struts framework Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, and form beans for presenting the data to JSPs • Created screens by assembling Struts Tiles: header, footer, menu, body and defined common page layouts, menu layouts, and use them by passing lists of items and links. Reuse existing layouts using inheritance. • Involved in building highly interactive portable widgets using HTML 5, CSS 3, and the latest AJAX libraries. • Extensively participated in application integration. Spring is used to integrate Struts • Experienced  with  ORM framework (i.e. iBATIS ) • Expertise in Developing Responsive Design, REST Service Application with Reusable Code and High Quality & Performance using suitable Front End Technologies. • Consumed Restful web services using apache HttpClient for the data coming from external systems. • Developed enterprise-level JAVA applications utilizing XML, JSON, RESTful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS and a Modern UI framework such as Bootstrap CSS. • Deployed the application on to Websphere application server. • Integrated the child projects into the main project. • Developed and designed Ajax based Prototype, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX based UI frame work. • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP and JSTL tags, making using of Bootstrap framework and testing the functionalities using JUnit. • Involved in development converting the static HTML mark-ups to JSP's using JSTL. • Used Apache Maven to build projects which assisted in testing and to produce reports on projects. • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. • Used Rational Application Developer as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking. • Effectively used DB2 and SQL Server to create database and write the queries. • Coordinated with team in troubleshooting and fixing production application issues. • Interacting with the senior management and users for new features in this website. • Managing all versions of the website (Development, Beta and Production). • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality. Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring, Struts2.0, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, iBATIS, DB2, SQL server, REST Webservices, Apache wink, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, RAD, Junit, Maven.
