Senior UI Developer
AIG - Jersey City, NJ
AIG offers world-class opportunities in a broad range of disciplines. Industry-leading enterprise is made up of underwriters, actuaries and claims examiners. They have industry-focused practices that draw the best and the brightest from the sectors they serve, from construction and aerospace to real estate and human resources. At AIG, world-class opportunities translate into exciting careers.  Responsibilities: * Requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design the project. * Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML to decide upon the modules. * Developed ER diagrams for database design. * Involved in developing the front end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, and CSS/CSS3. * Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSP and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0. * Design and developed business logic using Service Classes. * Written controllers based on Spring MVC and made calls to JSP pages. * Implemented responsive web design using media queries and bootstrap. * Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using frameworks like Backbone.js * Developed and improved application using MVC Framework backbone.js and Bootstrap. * Experience using different JQuery and bootstrap plugins for the web pages. * Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFul Web Services using AJAX, JSON. * All communication between the UI and the API layer in JSON, Jackson JSON parser used for fast parsing and marshalling. * Involved in multiple projects with different clients in developing UI screens using spring, Hibernate and JavaScript frameworks. * Project makes good use of Spring annotations to provide API URL's, Auto Wiring and Error Handling. * Extensively used JQuery UI, Require.js and JQuery to provide UI functionality. * Extensive Hibernate annotations including keys, auto generation and relationships, eager fetching, pre-create and pre-update are used. * Used AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validation. * Make sure that Design Patterns are properly incorporated in appropriate modules. * Used JUnit for Unit testing the application. * Developed DAO's (Data Access Objects) and SQL queries to support system functionality. * Used Apache Ant to compile java classes and packages into jar/war archives, involved in Low Level and High Level Documentation of the product. * Written SQL queries to get accurate number of items in the result from the search engine. * Wrote UNIX shell scripts to automate business process. * Involved in the performance testing and performance enhancement activities. * Performed QA activities, Created test data, Test Cases and tested the application.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Java Script, Maven, JSON, jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Apache Tomcat 7.
