Sr. Java Web Developer
ADP - Alpharetta, GA
Description: From their first account in Paterson, N.J., to the more than 610,000 clients they serve around the world today, ADP helps organizations of all types and sizes unlock their business potential. For 60 years, they've led the way in defining the future of business outsourcing solutions. And they remain one of the world's most innovative, diverse and admired companies to work for today.  They are a comprehensive global provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) solutions that unite HR, payroll, talent, time, tax and benefits administration, and a leader in business outsourcing services, analytics and compliance expertise. There unmatched experience, deep insights, and cutting-edge technology have transformed human resources from a back-office administrative function to a strategic business advantage.  Responsibilities: • Analyze, design, develop, test, troubleshoot, repair, review and maintain software programs using Java, J2EE, Web Services, SQL, Oracle, Tomcat Server and WebSphere application Server under the supervision of a Team Lead/Project Manager. • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) concepts, various Design Patterns (J2EE) with excellent logical and analytical skills. • Extensive design framework experience using MVC, Struts, spring, Ajax and Hibernate. • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DOJO, GWT, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Tag Library. • Writing the enhancements and migrating the existing programs using Test Driven Development (TDD) software development process. • Analyze, review and change existing Java programs and database views to increase operating efficiency or adapt to new requirements. • Working with other team members and business users to develop solutions to support business requirements. • Skilled in Test Driven Development and Agile Development. • Worked as Scrum master for my team for some sprints. • Writing documentation to describe program development, logic, coding and corrections. • Preparing tech specs on assigned activities and operations. • Designing application to functional and technical programming standards. • Excellent verbal and written communication skills. • Strong analytical, organizational and interpersonal skills. Environment: Eclipse, Java, J2EE, SQL Developer, JUnit, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, DOJO, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, WebSphere Application Server.
