Sr. Java Developer
CANON USA - Melville, NY
Responsibilities: • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology. • Implementation of new module development, new change requirement, fixes the code. Defect fixing for defects identified in pre-production environments and production environment. • Created Wiki pages using Confluence Documentation. • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes which were used across all modules of the application. • Used Oracle 10g as a Database and SQL Programming for querying database. • Developed the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes. • Used Hibernate for persistence framework, involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernate for ORM mapping. • Based on client requirements, made enhancements in the application by moving java to Scala. • Written Java classes to test UI and Web services through JUnit and Mockito and Log4j tool for debugging the application. • Performed functional and integration testing, extensively involved in release/deployment related critical activities. Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries, JavaScript, CSS, HTML. • Worked on the application developed using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Backbone.js , Node.js • Used SVN for version control. Log4J was used to log both User Interface and Domain Level Messages. • Implemented Web service client to communicate with other supporting systems. • Developing the RESTful and Soap Web services • Developing view layers in JSP/Java/Java Tags • Consume the services using the interfaces created using the contract supplied by other systems. • Used SoapUI and Postman for testing the WebServices. • Create the deployment document on various environments such as Test, QC, and UAT. • Involved in system wide enhancements supporting the entire system and fixing reported bugs. • Explored Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, and Hibernate in creating the POC. • Done data manipulation on front end using JavaScript and JSON. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Eclipse RCP, Hibernate, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, Oracle, JBoss, Ant, Eclipse, JUnit, Log4J, AJAX, WebServices, API (Vendor which deals with social media websites), JMS, HTML, XML, CMS
