Java Consultant
Sun Edison Inc - San Francisco, CA
Description: Sun Edison is a fast growing renewable energy resourced based product based company. It sells solar panels to homes in various finance options like for cash, loan, lease, etc.  The core applicant of the Sun Edison is Net Suite but it depend various other modules like Genability for the real cost of energy and insight into their energy bills, electricity price, cost of power and utility switching options; Web Merge for PDF document generation; Docu-Sign for e-Sign; etc. And Net Suite has some front end interface through which dealers push proposals and contracts to Net Suite for the customers who are purchasing and getting solar panels installed on their roof tops.  Responsibilities: • Worked in Agile and SCRUM environment with scrum team and used JIRA to view the tasks, requirements and IT Service Desk for defect management • Closely worked with the Design team to gather all the required information and developed the applications. • Developed Web tier using Angular.js as MVC frame work with HTML5 and CSS3 • Responsible for application support on different environments in Production and responsible for analyzing, triaging the issues, providing technical and functional support to the users and fix QC defects. • Developed and Configured the Spring Configuration files for business and the persistence layers. • Extensively used Dependency Injection (IOC) and Spring JDBC for developing the applications. • Involved in developing the Business Layer and its helper and contract classes for implementing the business logic. • Used Maven for building the application. Used RAD IDE and WebSphere Application Server • Developed the REST Web Services to perform Business logic and acts as intermediate between UI and Business Layer in JSON format. • Performed Server side validations according to Business Rules set by Users. • Extensively used MVC, DAO, Factory and Singleton design patterns. • Involved in writing SQL Queries for Database CRUD Operations and verified the Data with the Production, Acceptance and Integration. • Involved in moving the application to Production and provided support for 4 states Pilot. • Developed JUnitTest cases for Persistence layer and Business layer to perform the unit level testing. • Also worked on deployments, while deploying we do the basic sanity and fix the production issue if the deployment is un-successful and deploy the application properly. • Effort estimation, development and unit testing.  Environment: REST Web Services, IBM-WebSphere Application Server 8.5, RAD IDE, AngularJs, JavaScript, JSON, Maven, PL/SQL Developer, Hibernate, Spring, CSS, XML, JEE 1.6, Log4J, JUnit 4.0.
