Java Developer
Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO
Responsibilities: • Working on accumulator batch application that interfaces with external entities for exchanging claims accumulations for pharmacy and hospital claims. • Documented results and interacted with client team and take ownership of key deliverables. • Custom JavaScript, JSP, Servlets. Hibernate and POJO's are used for ORM and data access, Spring is used for IOC configuration. • Develop modules using PHP, XML, and JavaScript. • Created an interactive portfolio using JavaScript for the company's website. • Hands on experience in Web Application Development using Client Script design technologies like Angular JS, Grunt.js, LESS, Sass, and other front end libraries and frameworks. • Extensively interacted with client project managers and technical experts to coordinate project deliverables and milestones. • Experience working with and implementing third party ecommerce (e-commerce) services including Payment methods like PayPal. • Application backend implemented as node.js express application server. • Developed code for iBatis supporting classes, Sql mapping for Oracle Stored Procedures. • Planning, deployment, and tuning of SQL (SQL Server, MySQL) and NoSQL (elasticsearch, Redis, memcached) databases. • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers. • Introduced build tools, including gulp and grunt. • Troubleshoot the problems and fixes the bugs in XSLT and java related programs. • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology. • Participated in all phases of the SDLC including technical requirements, design, development and unit testing. • Created different interactive spring web flows for creating, modifying and deleting the case status. • Extensively worked with Spring modules like Spring ORM module. • Delivered a monitoring application to re-submit transactions into production queues from data bases for error / exception records. • Coded and delivered middle ware for Medical Clearance (Authorization/Referrals) to process inbound and outbound messages to deliver transactions in a guaranteed delivery mechanism to relevant systems of record.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5/1.6, Spring, SOAP, Hibernate, Node.js, Angular JS, Websphere, HTML, CSS 3, iBatis, build tools (Grunt & gulp), Oracle11g, NoSQL, Elasticsearch, tortoiseSVN1, XML, XSLT, GWT, JUnit, Maven, JIRA, UNIX Shell Scripting, Linux.
