Senior Java/J2EE Developer
The Hartford Insurance - Hartford, CT
Project #1: 50 States Policy Forms State Filing Track, is a program to develop three different web application to implement new policy forms (Legal Contracts) for most of the core Insurance products within the Employee and Association/Affinity market segments across all jurisdictions in which The Hartford operates. This project involves continues development and enhancement of the Policy Forms issuance process including all three systems and business processes that positions Group Benefits to issue Policy Forms to cases in all states that comply with Approved Policy Forms in accordance with each state's Dept. of Insurance (DOI). Platform: Windows 7 and Linux Methodology: Waterfall (Initiated in Agile model)  Responsibilities: • Used latest versions of Java 1.7, Spring 3.0 and Hibernate in developing this application. • Prepare the Request object and invoke the web service call with spring web service Template, after getting the response, captured the response and saved into the respective tables. • Involved in complete SDLC Life Cycle. • Involved in production support. • Involved in the requirement analysis, design, and development and testing the application. • Extensively used OOD (Object Oriented Design) and J2EE Design Patterns during the tool's design. • Developed business logic using spring, Hibernate/JPA. • Involved in Build and Deployment of the ear file on Oracle Weblogic 10.3 server. • Involved in Weblogic Server Upgrade • Development and end-to- end Coding using Eclipse/IntelliJ. • Developed web services using REST/SOAP. • Designed the Rich Internet Applications using HTML, JSP, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, CSS and JavaScript. • Involved in developing and applying the styles for the Application. • Peer Code review, technical specification review, preparation of technical design documents • Written the scripting for the controls and the components in the Application using java script. • Developed the database components for Oracle using java. • Developed database schema and written complex queries, stored procedures to save and extract data. • Used JUnit, for testing the services and application modules. • Involved in problem analysis and resolution, documentation, troubleshooting, performance tuning and code fixes of various applications running in development environment. • Involve in manual testing and writing test cases. • Used Waterfall and Agile methodologies in this project. • Participation is code review using PMD and find bugs for code quality improvement • Co-ordination and participation in various module integration testing and bug fixing. • Seasoned teamlead responsible for deliverables co-ordination between onshore and offshore team. • Responsible for the team delivery and mentoring the Junior developers.  Environment: JDBC, JSP, Spring, Rest Web Services, Oracle, IStream, HTML, AJAX, AngularJS, jQuery, Hibernate, shell script, MQ and SVN.  Project # 2: GBD Booklet, is the legacy system to create Contract documents for the Employers and employees for The Hartford insurance core products. This is a Wakesoft based J2EE application which generates document that is issued to the employees which details about the coverage and the insurance provided. This project uses an Oracle product called IStream. The Booklet will be generated based on the coverage, we include. IStream is a document generator used in this application as a middleware. Platform: Windows XP Methodology: Waterfall  Responsibilities: • Participated in gathering and refining the requirements for this project • Developed design models based on the functional specification documents. • Implemented new requirements in the Overview Module and Resource Module. • Involved in estimations for the requirements • Actively Participated in the Defect Fixing and Reports Module. • Exposed to waterfall method lifecycle methodology. • Web Application Development using Wakesoft and Oracle JDBC. • Created the DAO, DTO files. • Involved in production support in existing modules. • Involved in application development in Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using JDK, Wakesoft and JSP. • Experience in using Oracle 10g as database. • Developed logging module-using Log4j to create log files to debug application flow. • Used Tortoise SVN for version control. Environment: JDBC, JSP, JSTL, Rest Web Services, Oracle 9i, Weblogic 8. JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, TDD
