Java front-end Developer/Jira Admin
SIEMENS PLM Software Inc - Milford, OH
Responsibilities:  Project: Team center Active workspace Framework  • Actively involved in the design of  application using MVP architecture in GWT Framework • Responsible in developing software modules in java, GWT Team center Active workspace product • Worked on CSS stylings for UI-grid tables. • Developed and  implemented UI automated test cases using the Cucumber scenarios and Selenium step definition pages • Responsible as one of the reviewer for the CSS files before code promotion in the module. • Installed/administered Jira in house and introduced teams interested to be part of pilot. • Validated plugins for Jira to add extra functionalities for developing better workflows. • Adapted to Jira agile for agile methodologies practiced by multiple teams in house • Validating Confluence and feasibility to adapt to new documentation system • Importing hard written issues or task list in excels to Jira in an organized manner • Gathered requirements from PMOs to implement their requirements in Jira • Participating in CAB meetings (Change approval board) before releasing it to production. • Application linking of version control system (SVN) and Jira to view code on Issue tracking system. • Reviewed and analyzed various change request requirements, design, and development and testing. • Worked in an agile development process based on Scrum. • Involved in SDLC of application developed using AGILE methodology • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. • Inserted External Style Sheet to various web pages using CSS. • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS • Extensively worked on AngularJS directives, controllers for designing the web application. • Created custom directives in AngularJS as in process of web application development. • Involved in creating test environments and interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects. • Developed Client-side application, compiled with GWT, and deployed using the NodeJS with Express as server. • Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers. • Involved in validating projects in backlog. • Extensively used Express server to run the application. • Developed Flex Application Styling using inline Styles and external CSS Files. • Used Gulp as build tool to fetch, build, and deploy application in development environment. • Actively lead/participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily stand up meetings and weekly iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  Environment: Jira, Confluence, Java, GWT, HTML5, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, Eclipse 3.8, Gulpjs, node.js, SVN, Node Package Modules (NPM), Express.
