Sr.Java/J2ee Developer
TG Mercer - Weatherford, TX
Description: T.G. Mercer is an expert in pipe unloading, pipe handling and pipeline logistics for the oil and gas pipeline construction industry. With extensive trucking resources, facilitate pipe hauling and stringing needs. Responsibilities: • Involved in Agile - SCRUM methods, break tasks into small increments called SCRUM with minimal planning. • Created Software Design documents, Technical Design documents & Unit testing documents. Analyzed the system for Requirements and Design by developing Use Case, Class, Sequence and Collaboration Diagrams using MS Visio as part of UML. • Designed and developed customer registrations and login screens using JSP, HTML and DHTML. • Used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries to create a responsive website that fit all devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone. • Developed Web pages to display various screens on desktop and mobile devices using JSP, HTML5, AJAX and CSS3. • Used JavaScript (jQuery) to perform Client-Side validation • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server. • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations, and extensively used Spring IOC and AOP. • Involved in developing code for obtaining Hibernate bean references in spring framework using Setter Dependency Injection(DI) or IOC. • Developed Restful Webservice with JSON for the application. • Used Spring AOP for exceptions logging along with log4J. • Developed DAOs using JPA entity manager and JTA for transaction handling. • Used Hibernate and Hibernate annotations and Java POJO to design the modeling part of the application. And log4J for logging and auditing of transactions. • Developed JUNIT test cases for the components to ensure all the developed code. • Implemented Iterative (Agile Modeling) process for development and release process. • Used Log4J for logging and tracing user-desired messages.  Environment: Linux, Windows 2007, JBOSS 6.2, Java6.0, Spring 4.x, JPA, JTA, Hibernate3.0, Oracle 11, Restful Web Services, Log4J, SQL Developer, SVN, JUnit
