Senior Java Developer/Solutions Architect
Lockheed Martin Information Systems and Global Solutions - Baltimore, MD
• Working as Senior developer in Claims File Records Management Systems in Enterprise Records Management Branch of Social Security Administration Agency. • Enhanced JEE Web application from traditional JavaScript and Struts 1.x code to JQuery and Struts 2. • Implemented code and configuration in Google Analytics for Web Application. Developed reports on usage statistics in terms of page views, button and link clicks. • Analyzed and developed code and tested to make the web application 508 compliant. • Evaluated Thunderhead NOW Commercial Off the shelf (COTS) product for its use as enterprise document generating solution replacing legacy applications. • Developing proof of concepts for new technology solutions for document generation, analyze it effectiveness, and present it to the customer. • Suggesting Java best practices for code improvement using Java 7 features in existing JEE based applications. • Documenting design approaches followed. • Analyzing existing architectural documents. • Worked as a Senior Developer in Modernized Integrated Disability Adjudicative System Project. This project has report engine, which is a Web based application that generates reports based on user requirements. • Developed, enhanced, modified web based front end reports based on user requirements. Technologies: Java 7, Java EE 6, JSP, Struts 1.x/2, JQuery, 508 Compliance. Responsibilities: As an Senior Developer, my responsibilities includes, • Analysing clients requirements for new report requests and existing report enhancements. • Improvement of UI by using developing JQuery components and Apache Wicket components in existing application. • Developing JUnit test cases of report queries, preparing unit test data, unit testing reports. • System Testing and integration of different modules. • Analysis of production issues. • Defect analysis and fixing, contribution to platform stability and user experience.
