Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Thomson Reuters - Eagan, MN
Project: Rolling DB Passwords - Rotate Database Passwords in LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol for selected resources.  This application would help the configuration team to change database passwords frequently without the intervention of DBA's. Project - Storage Reports - is a data generating process to identify storage trends for the database and prevents mass reloads causing database issues. Project - MrAlert -A standalone java application, reads data from the database and triggers alert emails when an application has exceeded a predefined threshold on a metric. Project - Application Deploy Tool - is a J2EE Web based application that is used to deploy J2EE applications to different environments. Project - CIR - The Customer Information Repository (CIR) GUI is used to maintain information about servers in the environment. Responsibilities: ➢ Followed Agile methodology and Scrum. ➢ Involved in application design and participated in technical meetings. ➢ Created Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams as part of the application design using Microsoft Visio tool. ➢ Performed User Interface Design and coding using Java, Spring framework and web technologies. ➢ Designed UI pages using HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, AngularJS, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries. ➢ Implemented business tier using Spring IOC, AOP and MVC. ➢ Utilized Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection. ➢ Involved in implementing logging, exception handling and transaction management using spring AOP. ➢ Used WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, CXF technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services. ➢ Used CXF API to generate Restful web services. ➢ Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST web services using REST Client. ➢ Application code repository maintenance. ➢ Used TOAD for internal data storage and retrieval. ➢ Used Ervin tool to design database models. ➢ Involved in setting up connection pooling and used JMS for Asynchronous messaging. ➢ Developed web servies and data synchronization services. ➢ Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization and Java 1.7 features etc. ➢ Involved in peer & lead level design and code reviews. ➢Built code & deployed on Tomcat application server. ➢ Coordinated with DBAs regarding the database issues and deployment team for code deployments. ➢ Followed coding guidelines, and also make sure the 100% code coverage to maintain the quality of code. ➢ Prepared Change Request business documents and involved in change and release management. ➢ Performed Unit testing using JUNIT, System, Regression, and Integration Testing.  Environment: Windows 7, Linux, Java/JEE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, Spring 3.2, AspectJ, JSP 2.2, Hibernate 3.5, Tomcat 6, JMS, Apache 2.2, JDBC, STS 3.5, Log4j, Maven, JUnit, Oracle, Web Services- WSDL, SOAP, REST, JSON, , SOAP UI, REST Client, MS Visio, Grails and Groovy Tool Suite.
