Sr. Java Developer
CITI GROUP - Fort Mill, SC
Description: Worked as a Sr. Java Developer at Citigroup enterprise technology solutions (ETS) . Citi provides investment management, retail and commercial banking, consumer finance and investment banking services. The fundamental goal of the project was to enhance the entire inside product line to be more robust in the current global segment.  Responsibilities: • Involving in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements and creating Detail Design Document. • Designed and implemented User management and Report Management modules using J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts and Oracle Database. • Implemented the user interface for the User management such as Add User, Delete User and Modify User. • Implemented the business logic using JSP, JSTL and Java Beans and service classes. • Designed the presentation using Struts Framework and command pattern for the middle tier. • Developed the action classes, Action form classes, created JSP's using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, web.xml files. • Worked on Struts Action classes, Action forms, Struts-config.xml and Tiles-defs.xml. • Used Struts Validator Framework for server side and client side validations. • Used Struts Tiles Framework for the development of user interface. • Responsible for e-commerce Division Central Region Professional Services business development, sales support, technical architecture, management and delivery of consulting engagements. • Implemented the UI using Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS. • Developed XML web services for retrieving loan information from the bank. • Developed asynchronous components using IBM MQ Series with JMS for queuing and messaging. • Build: Compiled the project assemblies using MAVEN and deployed it with ANT Script. • Developed JUnit test cases to test the functionality of application. • Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments. • Worked on JavaScript Libraries like jQuery and JSON. • Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate. • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSF 2.1, JavaScript and AJAX. • Extensive experience on modern frontend template in frameworks for JavaScript-including Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery. • Implemented Hibernate Framework to connect to database and mapping of java objects to database tables • Used TOMCAT server for deploying the application. • Involved in writing the Maven build file to build and deploy the application. • Worked on SVN Version Control Systems.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Java Script, AJAX, XML, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Tomcat, SQL, SVN, Agile Methodology.
