Java Developer/Software Engineer
Online Tool to Create Ad for LIFE TECHNOLOGY
Java Developer/Software Engineer Online Tool to Create Ad for  LIFE TECHNOLOGY, CA USA  (Client) (April 2014 – Jan 2015)  The web site currently provides an access to a collection of resources, including "Create Your Confession Ad", online food tips, household appliance information, and other Internet services. The services include advertisements and that these advertisements are necessary for GE to provide the Service.  Through Kitchen Confessions, worldwide public cancreate their ads from their kitchen. People can create ad, view the ads from gallery, vote the ads, forward the ads to their friends and can report any ad as offensive if they feel there has been a bad language used in the ad.  There is an admin module which is authorized only to certain Samsung Appliances people who can review the ad, approve the ad to show the public and can reject the ad.  This application is using a flash screens for rich look and feel  Responsibilities: •    Analyzing the business requirements from the client and designing the Technical Specification for architect's revie •    Created the packages, stored procedures, functions using Oracle PL/SQL for data storage and business reports. •     Imported the data from MySQL database to flat file and written SQL Loader scripts to load the flat file data into Oracle database. •    Since this is a small application, I have provided scripts to DBA for database creation. •    Used Explain Plan for analyzing performance for database objects, tuning and optimizing the PL/SQL code. •    Written shell scripts for secure key generation between the 2 servers for Java to use Secure Copy Protocol through Application server to access images from different server. •    Involved in test case preparation along with business users. •    Used Hibernate persistence framework on the backend over Oracle 10g and postgre database.  •    Unit testing in development environment and close interaction with system test and user acceptance team to complete technical and functional testing.  Environment: Java, PL/SQL, Oracle 10g Express, Flash and XML
