Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
BCBS - Fargo, ND
Responsibilities • Analyzed business requirements and existing software for High Level Design. • Worked in an agile development process, monthly Sprint and daily Scrum. • Used spring framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm. • Used Springs AOP to implement security, where cross cutting concerns were identified. • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces. • Developed Business logic with the help of Spring and Data Access was implemented using Hibernate. • Developed SQL queries and executed them by using JDBC Template provided by Spring. • Developed HQL queries to retrieve data using Hibernate. The Data Manipulation operations were implemented using Hibernate Template provided by Spring • Implemented OR Mapping with the tables in the Oracle database for one-to-one relation and many-to-one relation with the tables • Developed REST services using Spring and Used JAXB API for XML parsing. • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script. • Test Driven Development (TDD) approach was utilized and the test coverage was always maintained and validated using Clover and Cruise Control. • Created LDAP services for user authentication and authorization. • Web logic Application Server is being used as the Business Service Tool in middle tier. • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations • Used Log4j for tracking the applications and Used Harvest as version control tool and Clear Quest for defect management. • Consumed and created REST Web services for Quick Quote Details • Involved in exposing, consuming and packaging Web services using Spring Framework • Involved in the code review process and updating the best practices document. • Conducted Testing and Evaluation of projects at established integration points to assess progress and identify key functionality issues.  Environment: Java 1.6, Jersey REST, Web logic, Oracle 11, Spring MVC, IOC, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Scrum, NoSql, ANT, SVN, Jdeveloper, Putty.
