Java/J2EE Developer
CITI Group - Charlotte, NC
Citigroup Inc. or Citi is an American multinational banking and financial services corporation headquartered in Manhattan, New York City.  The project deals with customer credit card system. Also helps customers to view their statements, search transactions, download statements, download transactions, view the recent transactions and can do the balance transfers online. The project Online Investment Service (OIS) was designed to facilitate trading in short term paper (Mutual funds, Repos, CDs, Commercial Paper, CRA, and Time Deposits) for high net worth corporate and individual customers. The system comprised Trading desks that were created internally (logical entity) to handle region specific customers and business entities namely Broker were created to provide an interface for the clients to place orders. • Involved in developing modules in Javato create cases based onvarious visual charts like bar/line charts using freecharts frameworketc. • Implemented Servlets to act as Front Controllers for the application to forward various user requests to the appropriate business service layers. • Implemented the Tracking of Visitor Count using Servlets and then storing access information in the database. • Implemented various design patterns like DAO Data Access Object and Singleton Design Pattern. • Developed a module for searching file records for consumers to search various cases and view them appropriately. • Implemented Admin modulefor generating reports relating to various accounts and their service usage report. • Data persistence is being done using DAO layer interacting with SQL-Server database. • Performed Client Side Validations using JavaScript. • Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages. • Implemented Test Driven Development for the application so that all the java code is unit tested • Managed build and dependency of various modules frameworks using Maven. • Logged the results using Log4jfor debuggingthe application. • Version Control of the source code is being achieved using CVS. Environment:Java 1.7, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Ajax, Xml, Tomcat 7.x, Microsoft SQL- Server, Javascript, Eclipse 4.x, SQL, PL/SQL, Log4j, Maven, Linux, Windows.
