Sr. Java Developer
CapitalOne - McLean, VA
CapitalOne is one of the secured financial institutions that serves huge domain of customers. Bank offers various financial and banking services to its customers. The current application (Personal Loans) is a web-based project, which is developed from scratch. In this project all the CapitalOne customers are pre-approved for some loan amounts. Here the loan amount can be negotiable based on their Credit Scores.  Responsibilities: • Involved in gathering and analyzing business requirements and converting them into technical specifications. • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and NodeJS. • Worked on developing the backend part of the application involving Spring, Hibernate 3.2 and Rest Web Services. • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping. • Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures for retrieving the data from several databases. • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application onto Application Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process. Used Maven as the build tool and is scheduled/triggered by Jenkins (build tool). • Used tools like PMD, Checkstyle, SONAR for managing and monitoring coding standards, code complexity and code coverage. • Wrote JUnit test cases to test business logic. • Write Jasmine Unit Test for JS modules and generate coverage reports. • Used SOAP UI to test the web service API calls. • Used Git as version control to check in the code, Created branches and tagged the code in Git. • Used Log4j framework to log/track application. • Agile methodology was adopted in the development. This includes daily Scrum. • Responsible for Development, Bug fixing and maintenance of application.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring Tool Suite STS, Windows 7, Core Java, J2EE, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, Unix, REST Web Services, SOAP UI, Maven, Apache Tomcat, PostgreSQL, JUnit, Git, Agile, VersionOne, JavaScript, CSS, Html, WebStorm, Jenkins, Jasmine, SONAR, Log4j.
