Senior Java Developer
Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS) - Chicago, IL
Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: • Created interactive web pages and applications by usage of HTML, CSS, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Called Rest web services through Angular js services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI. • Used test driven development approach for application development. • Used angular js filters for filter functionality in search box and Iterator functionalities. • Created and modified the CSS classes to change look and feel. • Used JQuery Selectors to show and hide the particular content. • Called the restful web services to get the JSON object (Response) and manipulated the JSON Object to display the response in the webpage. • Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security. • Developed the application using Eclipse 3.5 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation, and version control (SVN) • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS. • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations. • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema. • Used the Rest Templates in the spring services to call the rest web services. • Created the spring Bean Factory for initializing services. • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements. • Configured faces-config.xml and application context.xml for JSF and Spring AOP Integration. • Built rich client facing UI interface using JSF and Rich Faces through which business users verify the risk price quotes and make adjustments to them. • Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, Simple Factory Pattern, . Data Transfer Object • Used Web Services (SOAP & WSDL) to exchange data between portal and other modules of BCBS. • Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to understand the existing architecture. • Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IoC) . Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IoC framework. • Involved in development of SOAP Webservices using Apache Axis2 to extract client related data from databases. • Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views. • Hands-on experience with Spring, Spring Data, Spring Integration, Spring Drools, Hibernate/iBatis framework • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server. • Written client interfaces, and implementation classes to consume the web services. • Hibernate Session Factory, Hibernate mapping files, dependencies between delegate classes, DAOs, controller classes, validation classes and the domain Objects are configured as part of the spring configuration file • Extensively worked with HQL and hibernate criteria queries. • Wrote unit testing codes using JUnit, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug and • Eclipse's debugging tool. • Worked in an agile environment delivering output in sprints and participating in scrums. • Used Web logic console to deploy the application in development Environment.  Environment: Jdk 1.6, UML, Struts 2.2, Struts tiles, validator, struts taglibs, Spring 2.5, Spring Batch, Eclipse 3.5, Oracle, WebLogic Application server 10.3, JSP 2.0, JQuery 2.0, JSF (Rich Faces), Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Drools & jBPM, XML, XSLT, CSS, DOM, DHTML, Junit 4.4, SVN, Log4j, Oracle10g, TOAD, UNIX, Ant 1.8, Agile Scrum
