Sr. Java/ J2EE developer
HM Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA
Description:Ecommerce application provides services such as Group life Insurance, Disability insurance and Long Term Care Insurance. The application process new businesses, Claims and generation of bills.Implemented the extensive SOA platform using different SOA principles which includes insurance modules. Analysing and transforming legacy applications into new technologies. Designing and developing automated web solutions using Java, ESB, Spring, AngularJS, Oracle, Apache CXF REST and SOAP services. Used Angular JS and NODE javascript frameworks on analytics dashboard of the SOA services using Cassandra.  Roles & Responsibilities: • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts. Used Ext Js framework for the development of web application using AngularJs, Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting. • Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side usingJQuery validations. • Worked extensively with Ext Js Grids. • Used Grid functionality like Grid filtering, Multiple Sorting, Grid Cell Editing, Grid Row Editing. • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrateSpring framework. • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations. • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API, which will be used across the framework. • Used SpringCoreAnnotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrateSpring framework. • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems. • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications. • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL. • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request. • Build SOAP Web Services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services). • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience. • Designed and developed customized ESB to integrate and govern SOA services. Built various capabilities in ESB like Security, Message routing, message transformation, transaction management etc. • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node Js and Mongo DB. • Developed client application API's using Node Js. • Used Require Js to improve speed and quality of the code. • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files. • Used JUnitfor the unit testing of various modules.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, AWS, Oracle, SOA, WebSphere, TOAD, HTML 5, CSS, XML, Angular JS, Cassandra, TOAD, SVN, Node JS, ESB, SOAP, Require JS, Log4J, Junit,  Sr. Java developer Target Minneapolis, MN Mar 2013- May2014 Description: This e-commerce project is a component based model and developed using J2EE technology. This project allows all the customers to enter orders and make queries through the Internet as well as to view and renew their premium policies. This site has provided the users, the flexibility to access information online.  Roles & Responsibilities: • Design and developed the application using JakartaStrutsFramework which is based on ModelViewController design pattern. • Used Struts Validation to validate various form entities. • User Tiles Framework to seamlessly integrate the controller layer with the UI layer. • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. • Used XPath, XQuery, XSL, and XSLT for UIdevelopment. • Designed and developed the Data access layer using Spring-Hibernate integration. • Developed the service layer using the SpringIOC. • Involved in writing SpringConfigurationXML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration. • Used Perl and shell scripting to automate the batch process and run SQL scripts. • Developed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party. • Used SAX parser for parsing XML files. • Developed MuleESB and OracleOSB as a middleware services to enterprise environment. • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment. • Designing and developing Web application to generate reports using Java-J2EE technologies. • Used JMSAPI for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue, such as   PDF, Excel report generation. • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment. • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes. • Used Maven as the build tool for the application. • Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphereapplicationserver. • Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management  Environment: Java, JDK, J2EE, JSP, Struts, JMS, HTML, XML, XSLT, SOA, WSDL, Hibernate, JDBC, Spring, CVS, Jira, WebSphere, Oracle 11g, Rational Clear Case, Clear Quest, Junit, Maven, Jenkins, JMS, Mule ESB, Oracle OSB. Sr. Java / J2EE Developer
