Java Developer
FCA - Auburn Hills, MI
Description: This application is the point of truth for the customer information in Chrysler. It has most update to date customer and vehicle information. It stores significant customer information like Name, Address etc. COIN generates unique customer identification number called COIN ID for all the customers. The vehicle ownership information is most important for marketing purposes, which is captured in this system. It can be used to correct address and Phone Numbers.  Responsibilities: • Involved in Analysis, Design and Deployment stages of the application based on AGILE SDLC Methodalgy.. • Implemented REST Webservices using JAX-RS (Jersey) by Spring Framework and consumption of data using AJAX. • Developed DAO interfaces & implementations for database related operations using Spring DAO support. • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Session Facade, Service Locator etc., • Handled various custom exceptions using Exception mapper for REST API. • Implemented Annotation based methodology for resource path, consumption and production of data (JSON or XML) requested on End Points and http CRUD operation Management. • Implemented CORS Filter to facilitate crossdomine capabilities and Crud operations on REST web Services. • Involved in development of GUI based on JavaScript, AJAX And Angular JS based MVC/MV* architecture using modules, controllers, Factories and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application and routing based on UI-Router. • Implemented better queries for web services to tune the system performance and worked on DB2. • Implemented AJAX based Calls to fetch data from Api by XMLHttprequests ($http). • Used yeomen for UI management and generated minified versions of scripts. • Implemented MAVEN builds tools for packaging and deployment on a target server.  Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Struts, RESTful Webservices, JUnit, DB2, Web Sphere, Angular JS 1.3, jQuery 1.9, Ajax, HTML, CSS3, JSON, JDBC, Maven 3.0, WebSphere 8.5, RAD.
