Java/J2EE Developer
Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC
Responsibilities: • Followed Agile Methodology to produce high Quality software and satisfy the customers • Did do the impact and scope analysis on the requirements and design, develop and enhance the Spring SOA based solution. • Implemented the Service, Controller and Security layers of the Spring IOC and Spring Security. • Design and development of business components using Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, EHCache framework, Spring Annotations. • Designed and Implemented Front End using HTML5 app with Angular JS 1.2, Bootstrap, CSS3, WebAPI, Angular Directives, ng-* directives, queue, deferred, promise APIs, Mongo JavaScript Expressions in Angular ($match, $group, $sort, $limit) etc. • Interfaced REST URL API for a variety of JSON endpoints via Angular service to controllers and widgets. • Programming Spring Interceptors, Spring Security (JAAS) Authorized Controller Components and developed the Data Access Layer using Spring frameworks. • Understanding/Designing database tables, Creating DAO's to fetch data from database using Hibernate and caching the data using collection framework classes like (Hashmaps/ArrayLists) during application startup. • Developed Spring message listeners configuring JMS queue's for each module and constructing messages to transport data between each module (Container, Engine and Distributor.) • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate with support of Spring JDBC API classes, to access data from Oracle database and wrote PL/SQL procedures and functions. • Involved in Documentation and Use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Use case Transaction diagrams for creating policy and implemented. • Used Hibernatecriteria API to retrieve the data and used HQL from different tables using Self, Inner and Outer Joins. • Created/managed MongoDB/NoSql collections and handled CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on using Java libraries/API's. • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting. • Managed, created jobs, scheduled builds using Jenkins and managed plug-ins like Git, SVN, Maven, Puppet, Chef, Artifactory for managing project jobs efficiently. • Developed Rest API based web services using Spring and Apache CXF for various REST requests. • Consumed Soap services using Spring JAX-WSPortfactory bean by creating required stubs using Maven. • Involved in writing the Junit test cases as part of unit testing, used mocking frameworks EasyMock, PowerMock Objects and Spring Datasets in TDD approach.  Environment: Java 1.7, Junit, SOA, Oracle, JSP, HTML5, AngularJS, bootstrap, weblogic, Jenkins, Maven, Hibernate, UNIX, ESB, MVC/MVW, Spring, Eclipse, Web services, Maven, AngularJS, Junit, log4j, Javascript, SVN, Agile, MongoDB, NoSQL.
