Java /J2EE Developer
Expedia - Springfield, MO
Responsibilities: • Involved in various SDLC Life cycle phases like development, deployment, testing, documentation, implementation & maintenance of application software. • Development involved technologies like Java, J2EE (Multithreading, JNDI, XML Parsers ), JSP, Servlets, and Spring MVC. • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and stored procedures. • Learned and understood bamboo which is the new way of deployment and build process. • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP. • Deployed in different environments like DB-DEV, DEV and Stable. And worked with testing team for Staging Deployment. • Developed JSP pages, Controller, Helper & Validator classes for the application. • Designed customized GUI pages based on the business requirement. • Worked with client-side and server-side validations for the web pages developed. • Prepared all related documentation(Master Test Plan and Test Project Schedule) • Work closely with Application Architects, Business Analysts, and Project Managers to discuss business requirements and overall health of assigned projects • Used JIRA  for defect tracking and raising different type of severity of the defects. • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues for Chrome, Firefox, Safari, IE 11. • Worked in Agile (SCRUM) environment and used Git Bash as version control tool. • Worked on Rest Web services, to specify the business behaviors and backend calls. • Opened CRQs to deploy the application in Stable and Production environments. • Deployed the application in Development, DB-Dev, Stable and Production environments and validated the application upon successful deployment. • Performed manual testing on the changes made to the application.  Environment: SoapUi 5.0, Spring Framework, JIRA, Bamboo, Maven, Crucible, Confluence, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, Javascript, XPATH, XSLT, Web Services, SQL Server 2008, Command Editor, Hibernate ORM, Java7 & 8, JEE, Multithreading, JAX_RS , JSON, GitHub, Hystrix library, Junit, Intellij
