Senior Engineer, Software Test
National Oilwell Varco, Inc
* National Oilwell Varco is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and sale of comprehensive systems and components used in oil and gas drilling and production. * In charge of NOV Amphion Platform and Simulation Project Data software quality assurance: creating test plan, and test cases; running tests as isolated modules and integration; automating tests and reports; creating nightly-builds for testing, and releasing the software packages to NOV Software Product Server. * Set up tool controller software on multiple Single Board Computers (SBC) for testing. * Created a complete Squish automation test framework running with Python for tool controller software testing on web browser. * Developed automated test scripts in Python. * Developed Python utility programs for testing purposes, e.g. programs to access COM objects Excel files for generating reports in XML format ready for importing into the application; access Microsoft Word documents to validate data on the fly; access Autocad drawings to collect all I/O information. * Developed Ant scripts for building the software packages for NOV Amphion Simulation. * Virtualization administrator for the complete set of VMware or VirtualBox virtual machines of all tool controllers required for the simulation project; testing the software as isolated modules and integration; automating tests and reports; releasing the software packages to NOV Software Product Server. * Created Java programs to execute operational sequences of multiple equipment in simulation mode. * Developed Java programs running with the supportive library for tool controller data logging. * Completed TeamCenter workflow for releasing project integration test specs documents: creating new document, assigning checker/approver, correcting issues * Managed documents, programs, and scripts in Subversion. * Reported and managed issue tickets in Trac. * Managed test plans, test suites, test cases, and test reports in TestLink. * Supported manufacture production group by configuring Applicom I/O for the equipment controller software according to its Interconnect Diagram drawing, and I/O map; creating the flash card with the tool controller software configured with Applicom I/O and tool controller varball.
