Sr. Java Developer
Guide One Insurance  - West Des Moines, IA
Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: • Responsible for prompt development of services, features and tools for the company's highly interactive lending-based System. • Utilized Loose Coupling/Dependency Injection feature of Spring Core to have better reusability, modifiability of application. • Responsible as a XSLT web developer including designing and developing the websites with thejava and XSLT. • Provided support and help on management of the data and XSLT programming. • Involved in troubleshooting the problems and fixing the bugs in XSLT and java related programs. • Modified the existing databases, stored procedures, objects, tables, sequence and indexes according to the functional requirements of the business flow. • Designed and developed a web application built with JBoss Seam utilizing EJB, JPA, Hibernate, and Java Server Faces (JSF) with icefaces API for UI development, AJAX, JavaMail. • Client side validation was done using JavaScript. • Managed SCM for modification of documents and programs stored as computer files. • Involved in administering Weblogic Portal Server. • Wrote complex PL/SQL scripts for stored procedures, packages and functions & triggers for data transformation purposes. • Involved in repetitive machine driven effort using Agile Methodology (Scrum) • J2EE application development on Windows and UNIX platforms using MVC pattern. • Tomcat 5.5, JBOSS servers were used for testing and WebLogic 10 was used for deploying. • Developed an Ajax framework for rapid development of Rich Internet Application access to databases. • Used Ruby as a support for Unicode and multiple character encodings. • Involved in writing XML WebServices using SOAP to communicate between applications. • The existing web system was enhanced using Struts. • Used OMS to keep track of customer's accounts mainly for credit verification. • Involved in creating GUI applications using Visual Basic.NET. • User Interfaces were developed using Servlet, JSP, JSF, JS, JQ, Struts and HTML. • Used CORE and HTML tag libraries for expressing Java Server Faces within a view template. • Used State management supporting like request, application, session, flash and view scoped javabeans. • Created few modules using JAVA Swing, AWT framework. • Created Stateless Session Beans for retrieving data and Entity Beans for maintaining User Profile Responsible for generating JSP Tag libraries embedded with client specific. • Involved in doing various testing as per the specifications and test cases including Unit and Integration testing using JUnit scripts via Selenium Remote Control 9.0.  Environment: Java EE 5, EJB 3.0, OMS, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Hibernate, JavaScript, Scrum, , Struts, WebServices, Visual Basic.NET, Oracle 11g, MQ, SPs, HTML, CSS, XML/XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, ClearCase, JUnit, JSF, Eclipse RCP, AJAX, Core Java, UML, JBoss, Weblogic Portal Server, Tomcat 5.5.
