Sr. Web logic Administrator
DSW Inc - Columbus, OH
Description:DSW Inc. is DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse; DSW is all about the thrill of finding the perfect shoe at the perfect price. A huge assortment of handbags and accessories also adds to the breathtaking assortment DSW is known for.For an even bigger selection, Shoe Lovers can shop anytime. Responsibilities: ❖ As L3 support member, I have to take care of all escalated tickets from L2 team. ❖ As L3 support member I need to resolve issues related to weblogic issues like managed server down, performance of managed server, jdbc resource related and jms related issues. ❖ Tomcat, Apache related issues related deployment failure, regular maintenance restarts and IIS related issues like site down, url redirections, Virtual directories creation and trouble shooting. ❖ Weekly and monthly releases and PE release for Prod and lower environments. ❖ Participate in load test, analyze load test results, troubleshoot & address performance bottleneck of application, migrate application through various test, QA, UAT environment up to production. ❖ Installation and configuration of apache server and maintenance. ❖ Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, java stack and Native thread & production performance. ❖ Monitoring and tuning WLS servers via the admin console and WLST scripts ❖ Worked on Memory related issues, application leak or WebLogic leak or java bug. By tuning and profiling the memory with third party tools. ❖ Deployed WARs, EARs using WebLogic Admin Console as well as running scripts. ❖ Provided WLST (Python script) and configuring various WebLogic components/services via Python script. ❖ Installed and configured Apache 1.3 as plug-in on UNIX environment and deployed applications. ❖ Worked on Extending Siteminder Implementation to meet application needs within Infrastructure. ❖ Strong knowledge of LDAP design including the deployment of Sun One Directory Server and Open LDAP servers, the integration with applications, and schema development. ❖ Working on SSL configurations and renew the certificates and maintenance. ❖ Preparing backup procedures, scheduling backups through crontab entries. ❖ Server Hang, Deadlock, application level lock, database level lock by taking thread dump and analyze to get the root cause for the hang. ❖ Responsible for creating, managing WebLogic domain and configure the various environments. ❖ Configured the apache web server interfaces, session management, virtual hosts and transports for WebLogic. ❖ 24X7 on-call production support and troubleshooting problems related to BEA WebLogic Server. Environment: WebLogic Server 11g, Oracle 11g, UNIX (Sun Solaris 11, RedHat 5.6), Tibco, windows 2008, Tomcat 6/7, IIS 7, Apache 2.4, OHS 11g
