Java J2EE developer/Full Stack
Citibank
Lost Stolen Card Replacement/ Interest Eraser Worked on making Enhancements to the existing Banking applications. This is an application is implementation of newly visualized concept of Citibank where it gives use the user to make any transaction interest free for 6 months. This new feature is called Interest Eraser and its low percentage is described as a offer. The user selects a transaction and an offer and then redeems to avail the offer, Citibank offer starts on the transaction and last for 6 month. Lost Stolen card replacement project facilitate the users to report in case of Lost, Stolen or Damaged credit card. The user will be provided with an interface where it can choose the card which he wants to replace. The user can replace any card for the dependents as well which are defined as the authorized user. The front end interacts with Rest and Soap webservices to fetch the information about the cards to be replaced and accepting the request for the change of cards.  Responsibilities: • Designed and implemented application using Spring, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring MVC, Spring Transactions, Hibernate 3.0, SQL, IBM WebSphere 8 and JBoss  • Worked on Agile Methodology • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time • Involved in High Level and Low level analysis and design. • Involved in the Agile/Scrum based development phases. • Development of the service layer using Java/j2ee. • Development using Spring Framework(MVC, Dependency Injection, Autowiring, Caching, Database Connectivity, Webservice Rest and Soap Client Api, Asynchronous calls, ThreadExecutor framework) which communicates with various service layers and configuring the Spring xml files.  • Used REST and SOAP Web Services to exchange information. • Used JMS for vendor communication • Developed User- Interface using Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS and XML  • Used Spring AOP for logging • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate • Wrote server-side test cases using JUnit • Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business User Requirements.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design Patterns like Façade, Abstract Factory , Singleton, Factory, Data Access Object (DAO), Service Locator, and Chain of Responsibility  • Wrote SQL queries using Oracle database  • Used Maven to build war and ear files to deploy on Application Servers • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change request  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J  • Resolved defects and worked with QA team for testing • Provided production support for the application after deployment  • Used GIT as a Version Control Tool  Environment: Java, Spring 3, Hibernate 3.0, SOAP, REST, JMS, JavaScript, Maven, Soap webservice client(using JAX-WS), Restful Webservice client (using JAX-RS), AngularJS, JQuery, Agile Methodology, SCRUM, Design Patterns, Servlet, JSP, XML, SVN, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Junit, Eclipse, Maven, Log 4J, IBM Websphere 8, JBoss 7, Log4J
