Python/Django developer
T-Mobile USA, Inc - Bellevue, WA
Responsibilities: • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing. • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record. • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel. • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF. • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client. • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements. • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers. • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework. • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks. •  Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture. • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search. • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances. • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality. • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands. • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services. • Automated Production tasks. • Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment. • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis. • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module. • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base. • Involved in development of a Map based application for integral analysis purpose. • Updated and maintained Puppet rspec unit/system test. • Involved in analysis and design of the application features. • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues. • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization. • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server. Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, KML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful,  MS SQL Server, MongoDB, Elastic Search, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Map Box, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows.
