DevOps Engineer
UBS - Chicago, IL
Description: UBS AG is a Swiss global financial services company, incorporated in the Canton of Zurich. The company provides wealth management, asset management, and investment banking services for private, corporate, and institutional clients worldwide, and is generally considered to be a bulge bracket bank. Responsibilities: • Involved in transforming the legacy Admin model to DevOps model by introducing various automation tools for host and cluster management. • Worked on building automation pipeline to deploy and orchestrate services in AWS • Created and Configured Jenkins pipeline Configured and administered Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server jobs and templated workflows to improve reusability for building pipelines. • Automated deployments of various JBOSS/J2EE web application on QA and PROD environments for different applications • Managed the GIT branching strategy for a few applications by creating Release branches, Development branches thus ensuring the integrity of Trunk. • Used Subversion for the purpose of Software Configuration management and maintaining the versions and also created tags and branches, fixed merge issues, and administered software repositories within Subversion (SVN). • Developed python modules to automate processes in AWS (AWS cloud formations/ Ec2, boto API). • Responsible for supporting and troubleshooting AWS Pipeline deployments • Supported and developed tools for integration, automated testing and release management. • Used Puppet for application automatic deployment and provisioning to different environments. • Automated configuration changes for all environments in cloud using chef, puppet and developed various modules and templates for different application roles. • Used Perl/Shell to automate build and deployment Process. • Coordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production environment. • Wrote puppet modules to configure Apache for different web application to improve performance. • Configuring cloud application with different third party tools like New Relic • Involved in the installation and configuration of HA-proxy as a Load Balancer. • Designed shell script for Redshift cluster shutdown/startup automation based on the snapshots • Supports weekly on call for troubleshooting application after hour issues • Configured cloudbees Jenkins plugins for pushing Artifact, Log parser, build timeout plugins • Configured Loggly to archive all logs to S3 bucket • Implemented groove based templates for Jenkins jobs • AMI Creation for CD/CI using boto API's • made automated python script to run every quarterly to update the Ami security patches • Configured the Load Balancers and VPC with Public and private subnets.  Environment: Amazon AWS Services, Oracle Virtual Box, Subversion (SVN), GIT, GIT Hub, Chef, ANT, Maven, Jenkins Shell Scripts, Python, XML, python (BOTO API), Linux administration Apache, MySQL, JIRA,
