Java & UI Developer
Events Management - Memphis, TN
FedEx is an industry leader in transportation, e-commerce and business solutions. Events Management is an intranet web application that enables FedEx sales/marketing/solution/Hub employees to register various events like NFL, NBA NCAA, Fed Ex St. Jude Gold Tournament and Memphis Hub tours for their customers.  • Responsible for designing and developing of Object Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and also in complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application. • Developed the applications under Agile and SCRUM methodologies, Test Driven Development and Continuous Integration. • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Singleton, Service Locator, DAO and Factory. • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts Framework and Hibernate. • Also have used Spring Hibernate Batch while executing a batch of DML Operations in a user session. • Used JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology. • Implemented RESTFul web services by using JAX-RS [JERSEY], creating and reading the JSON objects by using JACKSON libraries. • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such Event Registration pconfirmation. • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJO classes to represent the persistence database tables. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSP's using AJAX Developed stored procedures, triggers for efficient interaction with database. • Major work done on the User Interface part in Dojo to make it more interactive and user friendly. • Used Maven, Ant scripts for generating Web App, Batch Applications and running the Junit using Cactus Framework, compiling and building the jar files. • Used Log4J for logging the activities of the applications. • Handled the database management using PL/SQL DML and DDL SQL statements. • Used SVN Version control system for check in and checkout code. Environment  HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, Spring, Struts , Hibernate, Oracle WebLogic Application server 12.0, Oracle DB, Angular, Eclipse, Restful, JSON, Log4j, JMS, SQL, SVN, Maven, Ant.
