Java/J2EE Developer
Health Port - Alpharetta, GA
• Implemented the functionalities using Java, JSP, Servlets and J2EE framework. • Client pages are built using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets. • Developed Action Form, Action Forward Servlets and Struts Configuration Files. • Used Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern. • Implemented Hibernate for persisting data into database. • Have proficiency in using DAO and DTO patterns to persist data into database • Used Struts Tiles Framework for designing the layout of the application. • Created and consumed Web Services for building the business application layer. • Consumed JQuery APIs to handle the events, Validation issues and client side functionalities. • Interacted with the business users for understanding the requirements based on the functional requirements. • Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the Struts configuration.xml. • Used JSTL and JavaScript's for rich enhanced user experience. • Developed helper classes, delegate classes, value objects to access business tier and transfer the information from business layer to the presentation layer. • Supported integration efforts between the Struts Action classes and the EJB's services layer. • Developed Java classes for implementing business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the WebLogic. • Have proficiency in using JSPs and Servlets for view and controlling parts of application. • Used Hibernate framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle database Used JavaScript for client side validations. • Used XML extensively in the process of communicating with several external applications. • Maven used for the project builds and integration of continuous build. • Used SVN for version control and Log4J for debugging. Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, J2EE, HTML, XML, MVC, Web Services, JQuery, Struts, Hibernate, Oracle
