Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Citi Bank - Township of Warren, NJ
Responsibilities: • Involved in Analysis & Design of the Reference Data Management. • Created *.hbm.xml mapping for all data table objects. • Created hibernate-config.xml. • Configured hibernate with spring. • Used Spring Dependency Injection feature for Bean wiring • Created Object-Relational mapping using Hibernate. • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database for complex data. • Used Struts for Web tier development and used the Struts tag library. • Created screens by assembling Struts Tiles: header, footer, menu, body and defined common page layouts, menu layouts, and use them by passing lists of items and links. Reuse existing layouts using inheritance. • Implemented AJAX for asynchronous communication with server providing better user experience • JavaScript was used for the client side validations • Implemented Spring transaction management for some database transactions • Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug • Used Agile software development methodology on Spring framework. • Deployed the applications on WebSphere Application server. • Used mainly Dispatch Action to control the wizard navigation. • Used Singleton Pattern in manager objects to maintain only one object of them in memory. • Used log4j for writing into Application and Error logs. • Used LDAP for authentication. • Involved in fixing the security regarding issues. • Developed the front end using JSP and HTML • Involve in DAO (Data Access Objects) to retrieve data from database. • Architectural, technical and functional understanding of the interfacing modules. Involved in different activities like design, deployment, unit testing and test case creation. Build and release co-ordination for different modules. • Defect fixing of the errors caught in the development, unit testing and QA phase • Used Eclipse as IDE and Harvest as version control system. Environment: JDK 1.5, spring, Struts2.0, JSP2.0, Servlet2.4, JavaScript, jQuery, IBM WebSphere App Server 6.1, Hibernate, Oracle 10g.
