Sr. Java Developer
American Express - Phoenix, AZ
ACE (API Commerce Engine) is common API interface to communicate with American Express internal systems for managing money related transaction between vendors and other financial systems. ACE provide API's as interface to different vendors and these vendors use ACE API's to manage their Money Transactions.   INTACCT (External System), Liberty (Internal System), and Common Concierge (Internal System) uses ACE as common layer.  Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering specification, Analyzing & Designing the system, developing the module with the below technologies by Implementing Business Logic, Preparing Unit Test Cases. • Developed user interface using java Server Pages (JSP), HTML and Java Script, Angular JS for the Presentation layer. • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks. • Used RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications. • Involved in setting up Authentication and Authorization of the Application Using LDAP and SAML. • Developed POJO classes and used annotations to map with database tables. • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information • Used Multi-Threading to handle more users. • Worked with DB2 database for persistence with the help of PL/SQL querying. • XSL/XSLT is used for transforming and displaying reports. • Used SVN to keep track of all work and all changes in source code. • Used JProfiler for performance tuning. • Followed agile methodology for development process. • Wrote test cases which adhere to a Test Driven Development (TDD) pattern. • Used JUnit, a test framework which uses annotations to identify methods that specify a test. • Used Log 4J to log messages depending on the messages type and level. • Built the application using MAVEN and deployed using IBM WebSphere Application server. Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE,  Spring ,  JNDI, JAX-WS,  WAS 8.5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java Server Pages (JSP) 2.0, Spring Model View Controller (MVC), XML, Eclipse, Agile Methodology,  Web Services(Restful), SOUPUI, IBM DB2, JProfiler, Maven, ANT,  Linux, Log4j, Junit.
