Java Developer
Department of Health
Project Description: Worked on Obama Care eligibility Services application that automates the assessment process to give appropriate health benefits to the clients depending on the criteria Eligibility Services achieves the goals of processing clients and giving them back the most recommended and check for the eligibility for the free state services that can be received.  And also worked on ACES (Automated client Eligibility Services) which helps field works to collect client's data using ACES application. Which in return calls the eligibility Services application  Responsibilities: • Involved in coding JSP and configuring spring framework. • Had developed Business Object (POJOs) and helper classes to access database • Worked on Spring Framework for Dependency injection. • GUI was developed using JSP, AJAX and JavaScript, spring framework. • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. • Configured the URL mappings and bean classes using Annotations • DB2 and IMS were the databases and JDBC was used. • Worked with Flied level teams to make the product user-friendlier. • Performed testing for GUI and back end. • Done Manual testing on Mainframes as the application is accessed through both. • Was involved in Regression testing and Integrating testing with external   systems. • Involved in bug fixing for the code in production and was developed the code for next release. • Resource bundle helper for client side internationalization. • Involved in SOAP and RESFULL web-services implementation. • The project was developed on RAD and the version Controller was Clear Case. • The project was deployed on Web Sphere application server. • Process and product improvement through JRULES. • Done code promotions to development regions. • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  Environment: Java, Spring MVC Framework, JSP, Servlets, Web Services (SOAP), JDBC, Log4J, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XML/XSLT, AJAX, Json, SQL, CSS, Web sphere 8.2 Windows XP, RAD. Clear Case, Clear quest, Rational Requisite Pro.
