Senior Java/J2EE Developer
Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA
The Cisco Storage Connect (CSC) project is a system creating a simple, secure, comprehensive, global storage solution for customers' service request files. It has a third party storage cloud with multiple nodes placed in APAC, Europe and the US to securely keep customers' service request files. Sharing large diagnostic files (core dumps, log files, show tech and other command outputs) between the customer and the CSC is a fundamental and critical part of the SR resolution process.  Responsibilities: • In collaboration with the Business Team - documented the software's business requirements, objectives, deliverables, and specifications for the project. • Involved in the design of the product and ensured adherence to architecture standards, risk management and security policies. • Service oriented architecture (SOA) has been implemented using Restful web services which can accept JSON/XML as request/response payload. • Have created and implemented the web services for upload, download functionalities along with other metadata services. These services are large scale in use and used the cloud based storage architecture. • Fine-tuned oracle PL/SQL procedures and Queries to improve the performance of database activity in the process. • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP(SAX) and JAXB in the web service\'s request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems. • Implemented cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) headers for cross-domain requests. • Proposed and implemented the solution using UNIX shell scripts in migrating the huge data (in TBs) from licensed version storage to internal file system • Configured the RESTful web services on Layer7 Gateway using Layer7 Policy Manager. • Enhanced the existing dashboard application using AngularJS to follow MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, code reduction, ease of upgrade and performance. • Worked on the user friendly UI screens using HTML5 and CSS/CSS3 along with the business validations in Upload and Download Generic UI modules. • Involved in unit testing and user documentation and used Log4j for creating the logs. • Enhanced the code quality using Sonar tool and configured continuous integration using Hudson and configured the projects for automated build using Jenkins. • Responsible for implementing Release Management Processes in the team and have been successful in partnering with Integrated teams for implementing product releases at multiple Phases.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Servlets, Spring 2.5/3.x, J2EE, RESTful web services, AngularJS, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Eclipse, Tomcat 7.0, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad 10.6, GIT, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, Sonar.
