Sr Java Developer
Hartford Insurance - Windsor, CT
Description: This application manages the helps in creating General Liability, Workers Compensation, and Auto liability insurance for corporate companies. It also provides insurance for individuals. Its provided either directly by Hartford or requested by agents and fulfilled by Hartford.  Responsibilities: • Involved in analyzing business requirements and compose them into a technical use cases. • Designed and developed the application based on MVC framework. • Used Web Services like RESTFUL and SOAP. • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL. • Implemented Spring Cloud Configuration Server for Externalized Property Management. • Involved in Spring Framework- Spring Dependencies and Spring Annotations. • Used Spring-Boot server for running the application. • Used GRADLE Build Tool • Worked in Pivotal Cloud Foundry Environments. • Implemented Spring AOP for logging. • Implemented usage of plugin called Art factory, which is used to deploy the jars and can be used by different apps. • Utilized Spring Interceptor concept for detecting the suspicious calls. • Implemented plugins such as Cobertura, Check style and Find Bugs for code quality. • Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies. • Design and development of the new Technical flow. • Code reviews and peer reviews in every iteration. • Daily Accountability in RALLY and take a part in Scrum. • Used Spring MVC on the web layer and business delegate and DAO on the business layer. • Developed DAO for communicating with the database. • Implemented exception scenarios by overcoming with the new concept called "CIRCUIT BREAKER" features. • Supported extensively for functional as well as for Performance testing. • Used Sonar Runner plugin for code quality coverage. • Used Cloud environment for deploying the applications and involved with Kibana/ ElasticSearch for logging. • Involved in writing test cases using Junit. • Used GIT/GITHUB for Version Control. • Involved in Agile methodologies.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, Eclipse, Spring MVC, Oracle, Unit, Java Script, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Struts.
