Linux Administrator
Modern Engineering - Auburn Hills, MI
Responsibilities: • Installation, configuration and upgrade of Solaris 8/9/10, Redhat Linux 4/5, HP-UX 11i and IBM AIX operating systems. • Provided system supportfor2000+ Linux/Unix Servers including routine maintenance, patching, and system backups and restores, and software and hardware upgrades. • Worked on building new SUSE & Redhat Linux servers, supported lease replacements and implementing system patches using the HP Server Automation tool. • Experience with VMware Virtualization using ESX hypervisor of Vsphere 5.1. • Configuration, implementation and administration of Clustered servers on SUSE Linux environment. • Experienced in system administration, System planning, co-ordination and group level and user level lmanagement. • Expertise in creating and managing Logical Volumes in Linux. • Experience on backup and recovery software like Net backup on Linux environment. • Systems and network Planning and Administration. • Supported production systems 24 x 7 on a rotational basis. • Understanding of Microsoft System Center: Creating and Implemented Changes on servers and documented the change in the Microsoft System Center for future reference. • Resolved Security Access Requests via Peregrine Service center to provide the requested User access related requests. • Expertise in Installation, Configuration of Package and Patch Management. • Handling and generating tickets via the BMC Remedy ticketing tool. • Experience with HP Gen 8 blade servers and rack mounted servers. • Coordinated Hardware configuration, installation and management as well as. Configuration of ILOs and Console connections for HP Gen 8 Blade and Rack mounted servers. • Experience with setting up Linux servers for Oracle Real Application Clusters and configuring SAN based mount points. • Excellent Project Management experience. • Expertise in Performance Monitoring and Performance Tuning using Top, prstat, sar, vmstat, ps, iostat etc. • Creating new file system, managing & checking data consistency of the file system. • Created new file systems using Raw Device Mapped lun's, Virtual Disks and SAN storage as per required. • Successfully Migrated virtual machines from legacy Virtual environment Vmware Vsphere 4.1 to new Vmware Vsphere 5.1. • Successfully upgraded SUSE Linux 10 to SUSE Linux 11 on an Oracle production standby server without losing any of the database information. • Documented the procedure of Obsoleting servers resulting in considerable reduction in time and mistakes for this process as well streamlining the existing process. • Installation and configuration of Veritas Volume Manager (VXVM), Veritas file system (VFS). Implementation of RAID techniques and creation disk groups and volumes, plexes using Veritas Volume Manager 4.1.  Managing disks and file system using VeritasVolume Manager(VxVM), Solaris Volume Manager (SVM) in Solaris Servers and using Logical Volume Manager, HP Service Guard in HP-UX and Linux servers • Communicated and Coordinated with customers internal/external for resolving issues for reducing downtime. • Experience in Disaster Recovery and Planning. • Problem determination, Security, Shell Scripting. • Supported after-hours to meet deadlines as well as for operational support as required. • Proven experience in end-to-end problem determination/troubleshooting system issues. • Thorough understanding of networks and storage systems.  ENVIRONMENT: Solaris […] Redhat Linux 4/5/6/7, HP-UX 11i, AIX, Sun Enterprise Servers TSeries, MSeries and Fijustu x86 servers , HP 9000K, L, N class Server, HP & Dell blade servers, IBM RS/6000, p Series servers, VMware ESXi Server, Oracle.
