Sr Java Developer
Edward Jones - St. Louis, MO
Description: Edward Jones is a financial service firm that offers commission-based and fee-based financial products. 1. Client Statement Options: The clients of Edward Jones receive numerous statements regarding their investments, portfolios, insurance and savings every month/quarter. This application gives them the options to choose the duration cycle, type of statements, accessibility, personal/household etc. User can change them anytime of their liking and this application tracks who, when and what changed the options and notify the authorized person by e-mail. This application is very GUI centric and easy to read/understand screen. This is part of much bigger Account Access application. Once the user logs into their account, they have multiple links throughout the account to easily access statement options. 2. Tax Document Retention: As per the federal regulations, Edward Jones decided to archive and store all the documents related to clients for 10yrs and 10days from the day the account ceased to exist. All the documents will be available for any compliance issues during this time frame. This project collects all the documents that are residing in various DB servers and centralize in a core Stellent server. Collecting duplicate records is a big problem, so we are developing new algorithms to cross check the validity of each record before storing it. Also, the retention timeframe is a big issue as the cut off mark for each and every account is different. We cannot run a batch job to purge all accounts that are 10yrs old. We are still in design phase and yesterday's record count was 9mil and batch jobs are still running  Responsibilities: • Understanding the requirements by interacting with business users and mapping them to design and implementing it following the AGILE Development methodology. • Designed and developed the application using Struts Model View Controller (MVC) design Pattern. • Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and templates and performed action mapping in struts-config.xml. • Extensive use of EJBs for middle tier component to implement the business logic • Developed an automated application using JMS for messaging and JNDI to interact with the Server. • Implemented Service locator pattern to invoke EJBs through Struts. • Coded JavaScript for AJAX and client side data validation. • Used JDBC API as part of the DAO layer in the project. • Used Java Mail API to send or receive emails • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue. • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database. • Implemented logging using log4j. • Developed ANT script to build and deploy Java applications. • Designed the Architecture of the project as per Spring MVC Frame work. Worked with Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring Integration Framework with Hibernate. • Developed modules using Spring3 framework using Eclipse IDE. • Create JSPs with some custom JSTL Library Tags and Controller Servlets. • Wrote complex validations using client-side Java scripts and designing the GUI. • Configured the data mapping between Oracle and SQL Server 2005 and tested performance accuracy related queries under SQL Server. • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, used Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data with Hibernate transaction control. • Involved in the Production support of the Application. • Created several JSON objects • Hudson and Jenkins are used for build control and continuous Integration. • CVS is used for source code management. • Developed numerous Junit test cases. • Configured applications to use Sonarqube governance plugin for quality control. • Configured Artifactory repository to store and deploy jars and project related artifacts.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Apache Axis2, WSDL , Rest , SOAP Web Services , JavaScript, JMS, Agile Methodology, PL/SQL, UNIX, Oracle 9i, WebLogic, TOMCAT, Eclipse 3.5/4.4, JQuery, Ajax, Jenkins, Sonar, Maven3, CVS, JSON
