Technical Lead/Senior Java J2EE Developer
Broadcast Music Inc
BMI is currently in the process of migrating from all IBM products into java platform due to increasing support and renewal costs. WESB to java migration is the starting point of this initiate where in which around 60 IIB services are planned in phase-I.  • Requirements Gathering - Discussion with senior solution architects, TDM and Legacy service developers. • Preparation of query logs, getting clarifications and converting them in to POC. • Worked on proposals for java services using spring REST framework and spring JPA. • Defined standards and design to be followed for all java services. • Worked on multiple POCs based on BMI domain models and business using spring modules. • Worked on EJS developer guide for all developers whoever working on Legacy IIB services. • Involved in defining standards for cross cutting concerns like exception handling, logging, HTTP response objects etc. • Involved in defining standards testing framework for unit testing and integration testing. • Proposed CIS mechanism to build and release java services using Maven build framework. • End to End development of few IIB services like licenseagreement, enterprisemanagement and Interested-Party. • Resolved multiple critical issues during POC phase like Rest to spring-data-jpa integration. • Involved in defining the CRUD interfaces for various legacy services. • Helping the team in defining the REST URL pattern for respective legacy services. • Worked on providing global solutions using Jackson framework for core concerns like date-format, xml collection responses. • Worked on POCs using Gradle, Artifactory, Nexus, WAS Liberty, JMX, JMS, JNI. • Worked on standardizing the service contract templates for new java services. • Involved in spring planning, retrospective, scrum meetings, code reviews. • Helping the team in fixing of critical defects in DEV/INT/TST phases during java service development.  Environment: Java 1.7, spring REST framework, spring data JPA, spring JDBC, spring IOC, spring AOP, spring AspectJ, JSR303, spring Validators, Jackson JSON, Jackson XML, Tomcat8, logback logging, Junit, Data Power, XSLT, Maven, Gradle, RTC, Apache SOLR, soapUI.
