Senior Java Developer
State of North Dakota - Bismarck, ND
Project: ESM Description Eligibility System Management is a web portal. ESM will offer providers a user friendly self-service web portal that has many new features and benefits. ESM will allow providers to enroll electronically, which is required for all new and existing providers. Also allow providers to directly enter claims or upload batch transactions and will also offer real-time access to member eligibility, claims status, remittance advice, payment status and claims history. ESM is the integration of three applications. Client Portal Application, Worker Portal Application, Streamlined Application and a common backend process Eligibility Services. Responsibilities: • Worked on multiple projects like Client portal Application, Worker Portal Application and NDVerify to integrate with ESM. • Enhance software to reduce operating time and/or improve efficiency. • Coordinate closely with IT management, team members, other Agency management, and other Agency personnel, as needed, to ensure proper development and implementation of program and system specifications. • Actively participated in Object Oriented Analysis & Design sessions of the Project, which is based on MVC 2 Architecture using J2EE and spring. • Implemented the JSPs and EJBs in the Spring Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application. • Developed MDB for an application to process incoming transactions. • Developed many JSP pages, used JavaScript for client side validation. • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL. • Used the JPA for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries. • Used Clear Case for code repository and as version control mechanism. • Used GIT for Two applications Worker Portal Application and Eligibility Services. • Used Service Locator design pattern, to access remote EJB's. • Worked with JMS queues for P-P communications. • Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Value Object (Transfer Object) and Data Access Object. • Perform defect tracking and defect resolution management for development and production bugs. • Provide support for the creation, installation, testing, implementation, and ongoing maintenance of information systems. • Created Restful Services for Wave Testing Webservices. • Translate detailed design into computer software. • Coordinating the Offshore team and completing tasks as per client schedules. • Involved in UAT and helped business users to test the solution before implementation. • Application was developed using RAD 8 and later upgraded to RAD 9 with application server as Websphere 8 and later upgraded to Websphere 8.5. Environment: Java (6), EJB (3.1) , XML 3.1, RAD (8.0)/(9.0), Spring (3.0), JPA, EAR 6.0, JSP, HTML, XHTML, Clear Case Repository, ITSM Service Management Application, PLSQL Developer, SQL Server Management Studio, Log Viewer, LDAP Browser, SOAPUI 4.5.1, JSON, Handler bars, CONNX, ORACLE11g, DB2, JQuery, Bootstrap, Handler Bars, JSTL.
