Java/J2EE Developer
Java Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH
Description: JPMorgan Chase (JPMC) is one of the oldest financial institutions in the United States with a history dating back over 200 years. Chase serve millions of consumers, small businesses and many of the worlds most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients and is the leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. The U.S. consumer and commercial banking businesses serve customers under the Chase brand.  Responsibilities: • Actively involved in design and developing of J2EE components. • Involved actively in designing web page using HTML, Backbone, AnjularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap and CSS. • Worked on writing the services to provide the relational mapping between the client side applications with the backend. • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade. • The business logic is developed using J2EE framework and deployed components on Application server where Eclipse was used for component building. • Worked on deploying applications on Apache Tomcat, Node JS. • Actively involved in deployment Application war files in Web Logic Application server. • Deployed the application on Web Logic server to make the application multi platform. • Used XSLT style sheets to transform database-driven XML into HTML pages. • Involved in writing the Gradle build file for assembling web services. • Used XPath to compute values from XML. • Used Hibernate for object relational mapping. • Implemented logging using log4j and developed robust exception handling and error reporting mechanism. • Used SVN to store current and previous versions of source code and it allows for concurrent editing of those source files by multiple • Used message-driven bean to receive JMS messages.  Environment: J2EE, Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB , JMS, JDBC, HTML, XML, XSL, CSS, JavaScript, Rational Rose, Eclipse, Web Logic, Oracle 8i, Windows
