Senior Java Developer
Division of Developmental Disabilities, NJ
iRecord is an electronic health record (EHR) system that enables the Supports Program and Community Care Waiver. iRecord 3.0 is a complete revamp of the existing application, developed by the Information Technology (IT) team at DDD. The application, currently, supports the Interim program, and expected to support the planned implementation.  Key Responsibilities: ♦ Followed agile methodology in developing the application ♦ Used Html5/java script for a rich UI Design ♦ Design and develop web applications using JSP, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, HTML5, SPRING, hibernates, WEBSERVICE , XSL, XML ♦ Design and develop User Interface (UI) screens using JSP, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, HTML5, CSS ♦ Engage in back end programming using SQL and display data in UI using HIBERNATES using ORACLE JDBC connectivity ♦ Conduct gap analysis and develop integration strategies and external interface development mappings ♦ Develop web services using SOA to integrate external applications ♦ Developed Prototype applications to extend the existing application to support the mobile devices (IOS, Android, and etc.) ♦ Tracked all the User Stories, Test Cases and Defects and comments for any changes to the existing User stories using JIRA Tool, Development Activities for Sprint Assigned User stories where monitored on day to day thru JIRA Tool ♦ Assist other programmer analysts in the development, migration and documentation of the application ♦ Install, maintain and document compilers and database systems ♦ Troubleshoot application bugs and conduct code reviews ♦ Experience on RIA Technology Adobe Flex 3.0 ♦ Designing and developing web applications using action script in Flex environment. ♦ Developed Flex interactive applications with data binding and custom components, etc. ♦ In depth knowledge of all aspects of Flex 3.0 and Action Script 3.0 including CSS. ♦ Create and maintain technical documentation and train and mentor junior programmers ♦ Used IBM work light to develop hybrid application for web application and native apps ♦ Extensively Used spring MVC in the application ♦ Used spring annotations for dependency Injection, AOP and MVC configuration, etc. ♦ Used properties files to set some properties/configurations ♦ Used Web Services to get Data from Different Projects/applications ♦ Used IBM Clear Quest for bug tracking ♦ Used IBM Clear Case for Version Control ♦ Identify issues with custom CORBA Content Store application developed by the Ericsson Professional Services team and used to provision multimedia assets in a Content Distribution Network. Problems were associated with sending large (multi gigabyte) content files over the internet using FTP. ♦ Issues encountered included the firewall closing the idle control channel after an hour causing the transfer to fail. Abstracted the use of FTP to an interface to allow the use of an alternate FTP client package (moved from ftp4j to Apache Commons Net package). ♦ Implemented code to overcome this issue and advised local technical team on configuration. ♦ Implemented a SOAP proxy to resolve an issue between the producer and consumer of the service. The producer of the service had a bug that prevented it from returning a proper file name for a specific type of asset. The proxy when inserted between the producer and consumer corrects invalid data from the producer and fixes it in the returned XML. Environment: IBM RAD, IBM Clear Quest, IBM Clear Case, Toad for Oracle, Core java, JSP, Struts, Springs MVC, Spring aop, hibernates, java script, XSL, XSLT, html, xml, Ajax, JSON, Web services, Web logic, Junit, Ant, Log4J, JDK 1.6, Soap UI, Rest Client, JIRA.
