Java Developer
STATE OF MICHIGAN - Lansing, MI
• Developed/enhanced client portal application called MI Bridges where user applies for various benefits and get approval/denial from core eligibility determination system called Bridges. • Coordinated with QA, data analysts, Business analysts and product owners to provide fast delivery of every single story in each sprint. • Worked on Struts based custom framework for the application development. • Created POJO classes, java beans, EJB Beans and wrote JUnit test cases to test code as per the acceptance criteria throughout the application during development and testing Phase. • Created entity classes to connect to Database. Created DAO for the CRUD operations and wrote custom queries to store and retrieve data from the database. • Participated and provided recommendations in discussion meetings at the time of DB table design for the implementation of Health Care Changes in MiBridges application. • Modified XSLT files to send data through web services. • Created web service clients using JAX-WS 2.1 to implement third party web service calls through MiBridges portal application. • Implemented client identity verification system in MiBridges Application using third party vendor named LexisNexis. • Worked on implementation of Multifactor Authentication through mobile authentication via one time password and security question to enhance security to MiBridges application. • Implemented and developed Affordable Care Act for State of Michigan in MiBridges Application. • Resolved issues with the Eligibility results in retrieval process of MiBridges application. • Worked on front end development using JSP, HTML and CSS. • Resolved various issues in Production/UAT environment going through logs. • Developed Account Transfer Send and Retrieve process for implementation of Affordable Care Act in MiBridges application. • Used SOAPUI to troubleshoot LexisNexis, Account Transfer Send, Account Transfer Retrieval web services using WSDLs, XMLs. • Implemented and developed CDC 12 month changes in Eligibility section of Bridges system. Modified decision tables in Rules Engine and validated the eligibility results. • Worked on Multi Factor Authentication functionality for MiBridges application for security enhancement. • Resolution of various REMEDY HELP DESK tickets through DATA fixes in Production and lower environments. • Performed deployment and coordinated UAT/Production releases. Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, XSLT, Rules Engine, DTEditor, Oracle PL/SQL, IBM Rational Application Developer(RAD), IBM Clear Case, IBM Clear Quest, HTML, CSS, SOAPUI, MAVEN, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle 11g, EJB, JAX-WS, JAX- RPC, Apache- Axis, IBM WebSphere Application Server and JSP.
