Senior Java / J2EE Developer
Aetna Inc - Hartford, CT
Project: ADA Engagement in Frameworks and Services Description: Aetna, Inc. is an American managed health care company, which sells traditional and consumer directed health care insurance plans and related services, such as medical, pharmaceutical, dental, behavioral health, long-term care, and disability plans. Responsibilities: • Software Design: Created Functional Specification Document for the Business Requirements. Developed a workflow which uses Spring Framework. • Interacted with Business Analysts to understand requirements and chart the Functional Specification Document for the requirements. • Created a SOAP based web service using IBM JAX-WS frameworks to retrieve the EOB Documents in pdf and html format. • Implemented Message level security for web service client using x509 certificates to sign and encrypt SOAP requests and response. • Implemented RESTFul service using JAX-RS to Fetch/Add/Modify the user details to Active Directory. • Implemented reusable registration frameworks for applications to Manage User Registration Process using Sprig MVC. • Implemented Site minder Security to Login process of the application by creating fcc (FederationCredentialCollector) files. • Implemented Role Based Access Control to Application using Spring Security to connect to Active Directory for fetching logged in user details. • Created Interface API called PassThruAuth to Parse SAML assertions from site minder federation to provide Single Sign on between two applications. • Helping the application development teams to Troubleshoot and fix the technical Issues. • Created JAX-RPC and JAX-WS based web services and Client applications. • Created SOAP Web service client using Apache CXF • Worked on creating X509 certificates to secure Web services calls. • Worked on Java Messaging Service to PUT and GET messages over IBM WebSphere MQ. • Worked JAVA Batch Processes and shell scripting to invoke them on UNIX environment. • Worked on Application Migration from WebSphere Application Server 7.0 to 8.5.5 • Implemented Restful Web services. • Used different design patterns e.g. MVC, Singleton, • Involved in creating reusable components, Java Beans and DAO for getting data from database tables. • Developed User Interface (UI) design using JSP (TAGLIB, JSTL), CSS, and HTML. • Creates Shell Scripts to invoke Java programs on UNIX batch platforms. • Worked as Primary Point of Contact for all the application deployment related issues in development, UAT and Production environment and troubled shooting effort with major success rate. • QA Support: Coordinated with the support team, the issues found during testing and involved in verification and validation of the issues. • Regularly Participated in the Code reviews with the team members to improvise on the quality of the project deliverables. • Participated in trouble shooting the production issues and coordinated with the team members for the defect resolution under the tight timelines. • Implementation: Involved in end to end implementation in the production environment validating the implemented modules.  Environment: Java 1.6, Spring 3.0.5, Apache CXF 2.2.7, JAXB, Spring Batch 2.2.x, Maven,, JSON, XML, JQuery, IBM MQ, JMS, , EJB, Spring , JAX-WS/JAX-RPC SOAP web services, Restful Web services,  IBM DB2 , IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5.5 , IBM Rational Application Developer 9.0 , IBM Clear Case , SOAP UI, Putty, IBM Data Studio, SQL Server.
