Senior Java Developer
GUARDIAN - New York, NY
Project Title: Dental Community Rate System  Dental Community Rate system (DCR) is a web based project which is used to generate the dental community rate sheet.  This project will assist you in the creation of an ad hoc dental community rate sheet. The DCR application is programmed with similar business rules as CPS. Sales Offices have an automated tool for the creation of customized community rate sheets without contacting the SBU. Improved customer satisfaction with faster turn-around time of ad-hoc community rate sheets Responsibilities: • Requirement gathering and analysis meeting with Business Annalist and Technical Design for the application • Responsible for designing the necessary logic for the implementation depending upon the business requirements in different modules. • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session façade and Value object. • Worked closely with Business analyst to understand the rules and implemented required functionality. • Developed ExtJS pages with MVC architecture using Struts2.1, and Simple tags. • Involved in Performance testing on all UI pages like authentication, Scenario creation, rating, utility, report pages and several functional modules. • Developed the Hibernate configuration, created Entity class using annotation for each table, used named query and HQL. • Involved with deploying the updated or new applications to the multiple system environments and provided instructions to ensure all software and technologies were deployed correctly. • Assisted the team in resolving the technical issues • Developed the Web Services to validate and update the address • Developed the coding standards and making sure team follows them • Developed Hibernate DAO Component to perform the CRUD action with database. • Developed Spring IOC to replace the factory classes. • Developed and configured the MQ service which needs to interact with other system • Configured the data source and JMS bean in web-sphere • A team leader with strong client skills gained on various projects. • Weekly status update meetings with business clients & offshore development teams • Involved in designing database tables along with DBA. • Used agile methodology for development. • Involved in fixing critical defects and bugs within given turnaround time after post release QA and production support. • Serena Dimensions used for Software Configuration Management. Environment: Java 6.0, J2EE, JSP, Struts2.1, Spring 4, HTML, Java Script, Apache PoI, Hibernate, Rational Application Developer 7.5.5.4, Websphere server 7, DB2, MQ Series and Windows 7.
