QA Analyst
Wells Fargo
Communication Center on CEO Portal: Communication Center is a customer facing application to CEO Portal Customers. It is a one-stop shop for users to review communications relevant to them based on who they are and what products they have. Commercial Electronic Portal: Wells Fargo Commercial Electronic Office portal is a web based application which provides single point of access to a variety of financial services for business which involves multiple projects including Application Integration/Decommission of various products, Wire Transfer, Secure Validation. Maintenance Utility: Maintenance Utility is internal tool, which uses to post alerts and Outages for the applications on CEO Portal when the application is undergoing any Maintenance work and customer cannot access the application. T.O.A.D: TOAD is Touch Optimization Across Devices, is a New Experience Pilot application for existing CEO Portal. In this project CEO Portal is under-going a full redesign with new User Interface. Responsibilities: • As a QA Analyst worked closely with Business Analyst and Developers. • Analyzed Functional Requirements, Business specifications documents and attended Change Request meetings to document and implement changes to test procedures. • Prepared Test Plan, Test scripts, executed test cases, logged the defects by analyzing business requirement and functional specification documents. • Performed Functional, UI, Regression UAT testing. • Actively involved in prioritizing the testing efforts depends on code deployment of each committed cycles, availability of test cases and test data for successful test execution. • Actively participated in Stand ups, Status meeting and Defect status calls. • Experience in Cross browser testing and Device testing to verify the application consistency on various builds • Created automation test scripts using QTP and Python scripts. • Participated in all the Production releases to validate the functionality in Live Data Centers. • Performed content validation to message published to the customer in Communication Center in Production with Marketing Request Form, with the real customer's ID's using the internal application called Perusal. • Device testing: Performed testing on different types of device including Android mobile, iPhone IOS, IPad, Kindle HD, Samsung Galaxy 7, Google Nexus etc. • Developed and executed SQL Queries for data Integrity, data manipulation and data validation using MySQL. Technology: Enterprise Quality Center 11, ALM, Python 2.7, JavaScript, Java, HTML, SQL, Unix, Windows, Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point, SQL Server Jira, SDL Tridion
