Java/J2EE Developer
EDMC - Pittsburgh, PA
Project Description: This project dealt with the creation of an online web application. Registration Redesign project for student portal, Admin portal, Academics, Finance, Payments and integration of those applications.  Responsibilities: • Participated in analysis, design, development, and testing phases of the project. • Worked closely with business management and marketing department to translate business needs into marketing and technical solutions on a daily basis. • Managed, architecture and designed various marketing strategies involving communication between different platforms. • Daily support for the ecommerce application on various areas like promotion campaign management, product management and order management. • Implemented Spring MVC framework. • Used Hibernate and JPA annotations for Object Relational Mapping • Used Jboss Enterprise Application Platform as the J2EE application server • Used HTML, CSS, JSP, bootstrap and JavaScript for front-end development • Architectured communication between different programming platforms using SOAP, XML-RPC and web services. • Third party like living social, Groupon, Ruelala, Adecco integration into the ecommerce site. • Architecture the ecommerce system and communication between different platforms using spring web services, Hibernate-JPA, SOAP, OFBiz (Open for Business) ecommerce framework. • Java front-end technology WICKET (AJAX integrated) to rebrand the ecommerce application. • Worked closely with creative, marketing and web team to implement business needs. • Involved in IT system optimization by working closely with IT department for multi-request architecture of the servers, build process and support to IT. • Worked in Agile/Scrum process, pair programming, code reviews, prototyping (wireframes), refactoring, and iterative development. • Use JIRA as the task and project management tool to assign, track, report and manage bugs on daily basis. • Implementation of OAuth Framework Authorization for Web Application. • Code Management and build process-using Ant and SVN.  Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Tomcat, Spring MVC, Spring WS, SOAP/XML-RPC, Hibernate-JPA, OFBiz, BeanShell, Free Marker Template Language, JBoss, XML, JAXB, XML beans, WICKET, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Scrum, HTML5, CSS3
