Senior Java Developer
Automatic Data Processing - Atlanta, GA
Description: ADP offers a wide variety of solutions for different clients in the market in Payroll Management, Human Resources Management, Benefits Administration etc. We were involved in developing a web-based application for Employee Self Services and Managerial Self Services. Employee Self Services deals with the salary management, benefits, Career planning of each individual employee in the company. Managerial Self-services provide the manager with the capability to manage the employee's information teamed under him. Responsibilities: • Worked closely with Business Analysts, Project Managers and Project Leads to transform business requirements into Java code. • Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements. • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application. • Implemented Multi-Threaded Environment and used most of the interfaces under the collection framework by using Core Java Concepts. • Followed Agile Methodology and participated in SCRUM Meetings. • Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and JavaScript. • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3. • Developed the application using Spring MVC architecture. • Worked extensively on Spring IOC/ Dependency Injection. Configured the crosscutting concerns like logging, security using Spring AOP. • Developed Data Access Layer using Hibernate ORM framework. • Used Criteria and SQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping. Integrated the Spring and Hibernate framework. • Developed Restful web services for the project as per the business requirements. • Involved in developing XML Schemas and used JAXB for marshalling/un-marshalling. • Used JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework. • Writing the enhancements and migrating the existing programs using Test Driven Development (TDD) software development process • Analyze, review and change existing Java programs and database views to increase operating efficiency or adapt to new requirements. • Working with other team members and business users to develop solutions to support business requirements. • Involved in testing the Business Logic layer and Data Access layer using JUnit. • Used software versioning and revision control system SVN to maintain current and historical versions of codebase. • Worked on front end and back end application development. Have upgraded additional functionalities and services with the use case provided Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring 3.0, SpringMVC, JQuery, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, SQL, JUnit, Apache Tomcat 7.1, Hibernate3, Oracle11g, Log4J, SVN, IVY, WebServices(RestFul, SOAP)
