Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer
Citi Group Inc - Sioux Falls, SD
Description: Citi Cards, ISA department has chosen Fuego (BEA Aqua logic) for implementing the business process as Fuego provides (i) Real Time, fully integrated Business Activity Monitoring (BAM) (ii) Real time graphical flow progression reports (iii) Full work portal customization (iv) Automatic exception processing and resolution etc.  Responsibilities: • Understood the Entire ALBPM based application. Involved in fewer Requirement Gathering, Design, Development, Programming, Deployment, Production Support for ALBPM based application. • Involved and understood the Development of Reporting system using Struts, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services. • Implemented the Struts framework by writing Struts-config.xml and Action classes with their form beans. • Developed some Action Servlet classes and Action classes. • Implemented front end validations through Struts Validations. • Involved in implementation of Spring MVC framework and developed DAO and Service layers. Configured the controllers, and different beans such as Handler Mapping, View Resolver etc. • Developed Advices using Spring-AOP. • Managed the dependency between the classes by implementing spring's IOC to promote the loose coupling between them. • Developed web services using Apache Axis web service engine. Used SOAP request response exchange pattern to exchange business XMLs. • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the database. • Developed Test Automation tool for ISW application. • Developed DAO's to handle both the SQL and HQL queries using Hibernate. • Configured WebLogic JDBC connection pools and Data Sources with Oracle database. • Developed entity classes, Hibernate mapping files were developed for the Object relational mapping while configuring Hibernate. Also developed HQLs and Named Queries and wrote Data Access Object (DAO) to handle HQL queries. • Participated in requirements gathering for making system automated. • Involved in development of processes for various workflows. • Understood and have knowledge in migration process of ALBPM 5.7 to Oracle BPM 10gR.  Environment: ALBPM 5.7 Enterprise server, ALBPM Studio, Struts 1.3.8, Spring 2.5, Apache Axis2, ALBPM Web console, Oracle BPM 10gR, Eclipse 3.2, Tomcat 6.0, Web logic 9.2, SSH Client, Toad 8.5, TIBCO EMS Server, JMS.
