Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
DHL World Wide - Spring Valley, NY
Description DHL is the Global market leader in international express, airfreight and provides logistics solutions.  DHL 'Smart Track' tool was developed to help the customers of DHL to plan their shipment and delivery date. System also provided the facility to order a shipment, to schedule a pickup and to get the transit time. Customer can check the location of his Shipment.  Responsibilities • Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML with Rational Rose. • Worked on designing of Processing and Shipment modules. • Developed the application using Struts framework based on MVC II design paradigm. • Developed Action classes, Action Form beans to implement Struts Framework. • Used the validation.xml and validator-rules.xml files to make use of the struts custom validators to validate the form bean fields. • Used JSPs, JavaScript, Ajax and HTML for developing UI (views). • Updated item location asynchronously using JMS Server. • Involved in developing user interface using HTML5, CSS3, GWT and AJAX. • Designed and developed message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue. • Involved in migration of project from Spring, Hibernate, My SQL based framework for JDBC, Oracle based framework. • Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application. • Using AngularJS, HTML5 and CSS3 for the development of Front end applications. All HTML and DHTML is accomplished through AngularJS directives. • Used web services for sending and getting tracking information from different applications using SOAP messages. • For extracting information form XML messages developed SAX parser based XML   modules. • Used Hibernate persistence strategy to interact with database. • Used Apache Ant for the entire build process. • Extensively Used JUNIT and defined various TestSuites and TestCases. • Used Log4J for logging server side message. • Developed the application using IDE tool WSAD and deployed on IBM Web Sphere Application Server  Environment: J2EE 1.4, IBM Web Sphere Application Server, WSAD, DB2 , EJB, CSS3,  Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JAX-RPC, SAX, HTML, JNDI, SQL, Log4J, Ajax, UML,  XML, Rational Rose, Windows XP.
