Sr.Java Developer
United Health Group - Hartford, CT
Project: ICD This application manages the overall inventory and code review process for ICD9 to ICD10 mapping of Diagnosis and Procedure codes for various functional domains across UHG Business Segments. This project deals with automating the process of Mapping ICD9 codes to their respective ICD10 (International Classification of diseases 10th Edition)  codes as per Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) guidelines and maintaining the same in the UHG repository.  Responsibilities: • Involved in analysing business requirements and compose them into a technical use cases. • Designed and developed the application based on MVC framework. • Used Web Services like RESTFUL and SOAP. • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL. • Implemented Spring Cloud Configuration Server for Externalized Property Management. • Involved in Spring Framework- Spring Dependencies and Spring Annotations. • Used Spring-Boot server for running the application. • Used GRADLE Build Tool • Developed facilities for stripping long error messages from minified JavaScript code for AngularJS. • Worked in Pivotal Cloud Foundry Environments. • Implemented Spring AOP for logging. • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like AngularJS, accommodate these advanced and fast technologies. • Implemented usage of plugin called Art factory, which is used to deploy the jars and can be used by different apps. • Widely applied core Java Design Patterns to address common system concerns • Utilized Spring Interceptor concept for detecting the suspicious calls. • Implemented plugins such as Cobertura, Check style and Find Bugs for code quality. • Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies. • Design and development of the new Technical flow. • Code reviews and peer reviews in every iteration. • Developed classes using core java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management) and some spring IOC. • Daily Accountability in RALLY and take a part in Scrum. • Used Spring MVC on the web layer and business delegate and DAO on the business layer. • Developed DAO for communicating with the database. • Implemented exception scenarios by overcoming with the new concept called "CIRCUIT BREAKER" features. • Supported extensively for functional as well as for Performance testing. • Used Sonar Runner plugin for code quality coverage. • Used Cloud environment for deploying the applications and involved with Kibana/ Elastic Search For logging. • Involved in writing test cases using Junit. • Used GIT/GITHUB for Version Control. • Involved in Agile methodologies.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, Eclipse, Spring MVC, Oracle, Unit, Java Script, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Struts.
