Sr.Java Developer
AT&T., GA
In Common Service project we have CSI Adapter Layer and I am a part of the CSI Adapter Team. The CSI Adapter is layer of code responsible for discovering and managing access to the Service Provider layer (aka downstream system), for providing a standard set of methods to access a Service Provider, and for isolating the Business Components (aka Business Workflow, Business Task, Service, Interface) from the specific intricacies of the services contract, e.g.: protocols, formats, tooling specifics, failure and service management.  • Responsibilities:  • Utilized "agile" process to streamline development process with iterative development and that includes daily scrum with team. • Used spring framework's Dependency Injection (IOC) framework to configure application • components.  • Requirement Analysis and development of business functions. • Involved in the entire software solution including code development, JUnit testing, SONAR quality compliance using Java/J2EE. • Used Model Driven Architecture Framework to create Adapter and its handlers • Used Tibco for designing the xpdl of the flow. • Worked on Ejb, Http and DB handlers. • Expertise with soap web services handling. • Worked extensively with wsdl's in the creation of Http Adapters. • Worked extensively with query's and stored procedures in the creation of database adapters. • Created XML schemas for the Request and Response of the Adapter Handlers. • Used Splunk to check the logs. • Validated the response on the qc environments using the JMS Test. • Used Bundle Testing for testing the Service on GRM Tool. • Extensively used Maven build tool and SVN(subversion) for version control. • Performed SONAR testing an static code review tool on the Adapter Handlers to analysis the code Quality. • Sprint planning and backlog grooming activities including effort estimation based on high level requirements provided by client. • Participate in daily Sprint stand-up meeting to trace status/progress/impediments of every day appointed tasks and activities • Interacted with technical BAs when developing and implementing the enhancements. • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers. • Used Dynamic SQL for interface programs and exception handling routines. • Application Testing, Review and trouble shooting. • Used Eclipse IDE as an development tool.  Environment: Java, Tibco Business Studio and Eclipse, Jenkins, spring, Ejb, SOAP, Weblogic, GRM, SVN, Maven, Splunk, JMS, SONAR, XML, Agile, Rally, Oracle.
