Sr. Java/UI Developer
FINRA - Rockville, MD
Description: Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA) is a private corporation that acts as a self-regulatory organization (SRO) . FINRA is the member regulation, enforcement and arbitration operations of the New York Stock Exchange, and various other stock exchanges. It is a self-regulatory organization, a non-governmental organization that performs financial regulation of member brokerage firms and exchange markets. The government agency which acts as the ultimate regulator of the securities industry, including FINRA, is the Securities and Exchange Commission. The application "Single Blue Sheets - Insider Trading Fraud Detection" has tasks of requesting the blue sheets from various clearing firm, processing them storing them, keeping track of blue sheets and their responses. Responsibilities: • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery UI. • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular JS, accommodate these advanced and fast technologies. • Involved in developing the Controller framework using Annotated REST based spring controller. • Generate UI mockups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML5, JavaScript and CSS. • Used bootstrap framework for responsive website. • Used CSS3 to increase user experience for button. • Involved in setting up the application Service layer using Spring IOC framework. • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm. • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality. • Used Spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components. • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes tointeract with the database. • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology. • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts. • Built the UI part of address verification service where users can select or ignore recommended address using JQuery Ajax and  model. • Designed user interface for Algo legacy portal for admin and users to interact with system using jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS. • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time. • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards. • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript. • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, CSS and HTML5. • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects. • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons. • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging. • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. • Closely work with the QA Team to give user enhanced experience and reduce the number of key strokes for given scenario. Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, XML, JSP, MS Excel, MS Visio, JQuery, Hibernate, Struts, Spring,DOM, DML, DHTML, Apache, SOAP, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Oracle, Windows.
