Sr. Solutions Engineer
Cisco Systems
    Solid experience designing, maintaining and troubleshooting highly available, fault tolerant and scalable distributed systems on Amazon Web Services, Cisco Openstack Cloud (CCS), and private Cloud.     In-depth knowledge managing and troubleshooting Cisco Mobility IQ cloud-based SaaS platform that gathers data across Wi-Fi, 3G, and 4G networks.     Architected and implemented complex workflows using Orchestration tools- StackStorm, Cloudify for one click customer on-boarding.      Hands-on experience implementing and managing enterprise Centralized monitoring and logging solutions- ELK stack, Loggly, New Relic, and AWS Cloudwatch.     Designed and wrote the CloudFormation scripts in JSON for creating and managing applications in AWS.     Experience with applications/tools AVI, Akamai, ServiceNow, Jenkins, Rally, GitHub, and Slack.     Utilized scripting languages Python, BASH for automation and applications configuration.     Proficiency in Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS) and Windows OS.     Experience in/with Virtualization technologies like installing, configuring VMware vSphere. Creation, management and maintenance of virtual servers and clients.     AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate In Progress. Planned for early 2016.     Architect the Cisco Service Provider Wi-Fi and Small Cell Solutions. Collecting customer requirements, influence customer decision-making processes using a deep understanding of the customer motivations and business drivers.     Build up testing environment for the various trials, demos, POCs and Performance Evaluations. Demonstrated the new solutions and features to the cable and mobility operators, including BHN, Cable Vision, Shaw, AT&T, VF and others.     Excellent understanding of 3G, 4G-LTE technology/protocols. Getting familiar with 5G developments.     Tested end to end Service Provider Wi-Fi solutions – Mobile Data offload, Hotspot2.0, PMIPv6, SoftGRE, Voice over Wi-Fi and VoLTE.     Excellent experience configuring and managing SaMOG, ePDG, LMA, PGW, SGW, MME packet core components.     In-depth experience working on 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac technologies and Wi-Fi Security protocols EAPSIM, EAP-TTLS, EAP-PEAP, and EAP-AKA.     Publish technical documents, best practice guides, and provide in-depth competitive analysis for wireless vendors.     Creating and delivering knowledge sharing presentations and documentation to Sales team and customers. Published Solution Deployment Guides, technical documents, best practice guides etc.
