Java/J2EE Developer
Thomson Reuters - Bingham Farms, MI
Description: IP Payments is a web application which allows the internal and external users to maintain their Trademark and Patents information. The web application will send alerts and notifications before the renewal of the Trademarks and Patents on time to the users. IP Payments also offers a robust post-payment monitoring system designed to expedite tracking and reporting, and validate that users Trademark and Patent rights are maintained.  Responsibilities: • Analysis, design and development of Application based on JAVA/J2EE technologies. • Involved in the SDLC phases i.e. analysis, design, development and testing phases of the project. • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) /DI (Dependency Injection) to wire the object dependencies across the application. • Involved in writing the code using Multithreading and extensively used Collections during the development • Have worked in maintenance assignments for the Logistic domain, involving enhancements and production support. • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally. • Used Spring MVC design pattern while developing the application. • Used JSPs in the presentation tier along with various customs tags, JSTL tags, CSS and JavaScript, Jquery and AJAX. • Built Enterprise Java Beans with Point-to-Point messaging functionality and MQ Series as JMS provider. • Involved in integrating Spring with Hibernate and delegated the persistence operations using Hibernate Template. • Involved in the development of Web Services (SOAP, Rest) for various business functionalities. • Involved in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views for Oracle 10g database. • Reviewed deliverables prepared by team before delivery to the business and production support. • Used CVS (Concurrent Version System) as the configuration management tool. • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit.  Environment: Java/Java EE, Eclipse, BEA WebLogic, Spring, Multithreading, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, JSTL, CXF, Hibernate, XML, UNIX, JMS, Log4j, Axis, Oracle 10g, Web Services (SOAP, Rest), Windows.
