Tableau Architect/ETL Talend
General Atlantic Inc - Greenwich, CT
Contributions: • Working with Finance users and Leadership team in gathering requirements for creating Tableau Dashboards and Reports for Investor reporting. • Used various chart types like Dual Axes charts, Histograms, Bubble chart, Bar chart, Line chart, Tree map, Stacked Bar, Donut charts  accordingly to visualize the data. • Working on analyzing the existing BI infrastructure and coordinating with various teams to install and configure single node Tableau server environment and creating sites, users, groups and granting the required permissions • Created and implemented Tableau best-practices on migrating and governing the dashboards in multiple environments • Upgraded the Tableau server from 8.3 to 9.0/9.1 versions and involved in maintaining the server heath by regularly taking care of backup and cleanup activities. • Built custom reports to monitor server activities by querying the Tableau repository (PostgreSQL DB) • Migrated the existing manual excel based Investor reports to interactive visualization reports/dashboards in Tableau. • Developed customized report bursting capability in Tableau to distribute the dashboards on server to a file share/email using Tabcmd/PowerShell/Python scripts. • Customizing the Tableau Server UI look and feel using Tabcmd/Tabadmin commands according to organization requirements • Conducted training sessions for users on Tableau to use it as a Self-service BI tool for adhoc reporting. • Performance tuned various reports which took considerable amounts of time and set up security levels so the appropriate data is viewed by the users. • Lead, design and develop open source ETL tool Talend solutions for Data Integration, Extracting data from source - Salesforce, Flat files, in-house systems and Transforming to load it in to the Data warehouse. • Used Talend components like tMap, tFixedinput, tReplace, tFilterColumn etc., in transforming data and SCD components to load the data into warehouse. • Worked with business users to translate requirements into system flows, data flows, data mappings etc., • Involved in design, data modelling of the Enterprise Datawarehouse from ground-up • Developed various SQL scripts to extract data and created views for Tableau to use as a datasource.  Software & OS: Tableau Desktop & Server 9.1/8.x, Talend 5.6.1, SQL Server 2012, Microsoft Office, Windows 7.
