Manager of Data Insights and Analytics
Promologics, Inc - Cary, NC
    Oversee all data, opportunity identification, process optimization, targeting, and analytics for the nationwide Life Sciences function.     Developed use cases and feasibility studies for data analytics solutions including SAS, R, Alteryx, Tableau, Python, MySQL, and ArcGIS.     Obtained proposals and negotiated contracts for data management solutions.     Led the efforts to implement the first integrated data management and analytics solution in the history of the organization, reducing data processing time by 200 hours over the course of the next year.      Identified areas of sub-optimization and implemented the solutions.     Eliminated the need for contractors by defining metadata.     Sourced new data that was more efficient than previously, reducing contract expenses by $50K over the next year.     Reduced sales-lead expense by $35K for email marketing campaigns by mining unstructured emails from the data server and matching them to healthcare provider data.     Tracked account renewals, cancellations, and response rates.     Performed complex data joins, created trade polygons, segments, and multi-dimensional geo-spatial (GIS) analysis.     Uncovered leads using geo-spatial matching within a drive time polygon.     Cleansed, prepared, and enriched structured and un-structured data for consumption by the business units.     Developed and administered company-wide protocols over data collection, sourcing, and database administration.  Conduct trainings as necessary for anywhere between 2-10 employees.     Interviewed key personnel to document protocols, workflows, use cases, and feasibility studies.     Created presentation-worthy geographic data depictions using Tableau.     Provided lead reports to the sales team as needed.     Provided data exports to the digital marketing team as needed.     Provided data files to Life Science clients as needed for compliance with the Sunshine Act.     Developed time series and regression based ROI reports for Life Sciences clients.     De-identified data files for export to external stakeholders in accordance with HIPAA Compliance.     Created and led status presentations for management and stakeholders as needed.     Captain of the kickball team.
