Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Citizens Bank - Flint, MI
Description: The application is used by the bank customers, employees and other corporate authorities. It provides services like fund transfers, secured account access and quick and easy bill pay. The Project involved enhancing the existing services and providing new services like Online Bill pay service, access account statement history, request bill pay reminders, recurring transfers and automatic payments. It has an application client used by administrators to manage customer accounts and a web client used by customers to access account histories and perform transactions.  Responsibilities: ➢ Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, XML and JavaScript. ➢ Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical MVC architecture. ➢ Used Spring IOC, created spring DI files. ➢ Developed single-page asynchronously data-driven UIs using AngularJS ➢ Extensively worked on the Persistence Layer. Used Hibernate for persistence. Used AJAX & JSON communication against ReSTful web services. ➢ Wrote POJOs and Hibernate mapping files. ➢ Involved in writing complex SQL queries in order to access data from the Oracle database. Used Hibernate for persistence. ➢  Designed Frontend with object oriented JavaScript Framework like Bootstrap, AngularJS. ➢ Also worked on Native SQL (Named SQL Queries, custom SQL for loading), Hibernate filters and XML mapping. ➢ Developed SOAP and GUI based Web services for other modules to access the functionality provided by the Events Manager using SOAP XML. ➢ Used Google Web Toolkit(GWT) to maintain java script front-end framework ➢ Writing technical analysis documents, design review documents and Junit cases. ➢ Developed new screens to the application by designing the UI with HTML, JSP, CSS3, JSF prime faces, JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery. ➢ Editors like SQL Developer, PL/SQL & Toad developer are used for developing and running the functions, procedures and complex SQL queries with Oracle. ➢ Code written for integrating LDAP with Weblogic. ➢ Script written to deploy Ear in QA and PROD.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS, Tomcat 7.0 Application Server, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.0, CSS3, UNIX, GWT, Oracle, SQL, XML, Design Patterns, weblogic, Restful Web Services, JSF prime faces, GUI, SOAP, HTML5.
