Technical Lead/Developer
Wipro Limited
Project description:  CCDRi – Commercial Cards Data Repository integration is a program which integrates data from Commercial credit cards.  Transactional data from card issuers is enhanced and enriched with invoice data from merchants  by procuring the same from third party vendors. This CCDRi program provides multiple services, extracts to the Financial Institutions, corporate organizations based on the subscriptions.  Responsibilities: •    Performed Technical analysis of the existing Ab Initio system and creating system appreciation documents as part of Hadoop migration process. •    Experience in working with Hadoop Eco system. HDFS, Sqoop, Hive, Map Reduce, Pig with Python scripting for migrating the Applications from ETL to Hadoop. •    Working in Scrum/Agile Methodology with offshore onshore model and to make sure the Offshore team is in sink with the onshore team on delivery.   •    Implemented best practices in in Project delivery in all areas including code development as well as for prepare process documents and share Knowledge with the teams involved like Infrastructure, QA and Production Support teams. •    Worked with highly unstructured and semi-structured data (Replication factor of 3).  •    Involved in ETL, Data Integration and Migration. Imported data using Sqoop to load data from DB2 database to HDFS on regular basis.  •    Writen PigLatin scripts to transform raw data from several data sources into forming baseline data •    Written Hive queries for ad hoc data analysis to meet the business requirements.  •    Very good understanding of Partitions, Bucketing concepts in Hive and designed both Managed and External tables in Hive to optimize performance.  •    Solved performance issues in Hive and Pig scripts with understanding of joins, Groups, and aggregation and how does it translate to MapReduce jobs.  •    Created Hive tables and working on them using HiveQL. Importing and Exporting data into HDFS from DB2 Database and vice versa using Sqoop.
