Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Oxagile - New York, NY
Responsibilities: • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework. • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate. • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework. • Designed and Developed persistence layer with Hibernate, jQuery. • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience. • Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements. • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript. • Develop back-end messaging infrastructure for real-time web application in Javascript, jQuery, node.js, redis. • Developed single page application with Angular JS • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework. • Developing web application with Backbone.js and PHP CodeIgniter framework. • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. • Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications. • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module. • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database • Working experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, JQuery, JMS and Oracle coherence. • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework. • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API • Developed application using Eclipse Ganymede for rapid development. • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server. • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies. • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, SonarQube for code quality inspection and Git for source code management. • Used Eclipse IDE for code Development along with GIT Hub for managing the code. • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose. • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application. • Used Servelets and JSPs for developing action classes and views. • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies. • Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA. • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable. • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component. • Client Services Rep for SEO company specializing in Web 2.0  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JQuery, AJAX, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript , Node.js,  Angular.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Oracle, CRUD(1), PL/ SQL, JDBC, coherence , MongoDB, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion(SVN), Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), SERVELET, MAVEN, ITEXT, GWT (Google Web Toolkit),  Jasper report, ILOG, Web 2.0, SOA,
