Java Architect
Citi - Township of Warren, NJ
Environment:  Java1.6, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JDBC, UI, UX, Flash, CSS, HTML5, Mybtis, JSP, Servlet, Ajax, , JQuery, Java Mail,  log4j,  Maven, RTC, Unix, Websphere ApplicationServer, Rest Webservices  ProjectDescription CITI Comp is a CITI compensations system. Currently CITI Comp helps the CITI global HR team, CITI Managers and other officials to set the goals, bonus and other compensation related information for their populations using planning, commitments and other modules of CITI Comp. Existing CITIComp uses different hierarchies (called trees) namely Org Tree, People Tree, Business Tree etc., in organizing the CITI employee and their compensation information.The purpose of this project is to implement the Managed Segment (MS) and Managed Geography (MG) Hierarchies in CitiComp. As part of MSMG project, identifying Sectors will be done using Managed Segment and Managed Geography and this will replace the existing usage of department for the same. This change will impact all the modules of the Citi Compapplication. The proposed solution is to restructure the MS, MG and GOCs to reflect how the organization is managed and assign responsible managers.  Roles&Responsibilities ➢ Involved in client interactions, requirements. ➢ Prepared migration strategy document and low level design document ➢ Involved in coordinating the work between offshore team& QA and delivering it to the client. ➢ Involved in implementing MVC architecture using Spring MVC ➢ Provided training to the team regarding Spring MVC. ➢ Prepared Maven build scripts and involved in application deployment process ➢ Designed and developed login module using Java, Spring MVC, UI, UX, Flash, CSS, HTML5, and Mybatis. ➢ Designed and developed planning module using Java, Spring MVC, and Mybatis. ➢ Worked with site minder team to integrate the application with site minder. ➢ Designed and developed re-usual import frame work using java, Spring MVC and Iframe which can be used for different imports in different screens. ➢ Designed and developed Mybatis code to handle data layer ➢ Developed dynamic query generations using Mybatis. ➢ Developed complex stored procedures ➢ Implemented Cache using Spring for improving the performance of the application. ➢ Involved query optimization and performance tuning of SQL and stored procedures ➢ Reviewed the code and provided the review comments to the team. ➢ Implemented CSS files for improving the look and feel of the application. ➢ Provide technical directions to the team to resolve the complex technical issues. ➢ Prepared WBS and provided the estimation for all modules of the application ➢ Involved in taking the architectural decisions which meets industry standards. ➢ Implemented AJAX calls using JQuery. ➢ Implemented webservices using REST to process the data. ➢ Involved in system testing ➢ Involved in performance testing.
