Sr. Java Developer
Global Bank - Austin, TX
Project: MTNA-CDR  Description: Customer Data Repository (CDR) is a web based electronic repository that stores all Deutsche Bank Customer and Account information used by the Money Transfer High Value Payment (HVP) Processing Systems. Customer data is held and utilized by Money Transfer Components for the purpose of enriching or completing transactions and facilitating straight through processing. CDR interacts with almost all components of MTNA viz. STP, PSE, Funds Release and Meraca for collecting customer information to validate contents of payment being processed as well as other information viz. pricing, special processing rules on an account etc.  CDR GUI provides functions to enable the inquiry and maintenance of data via user interface. Every transaction in MTNA will be charged using Transaction Pricing or WIS.  Responsibilities: • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu)  section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, TDD, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT. • Worked on the Spring framework like Mockito, Spring IOC and Spring DAO. • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality. • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. • Used JQuery , memcache, JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS. • Implemented custom search solutions using Coveo (an enterprise search engine), Backbone.js, and .NET web services (see Goodwin Procter's site for an example). • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database • Experience in Hibernate 3.0 which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and also performed polymorphic associations. • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider. • Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO). • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies. • Developed and designed interfaces using HTML, JSP, Server Side components using Servlets on Eclipse. • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts, Hazelcast and Weblogic • Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features.Refactoring code, redesign current design. • Mentoring of junior members for agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing. • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model. • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu)  section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT. • Designed and developed new features for application using java, j2ee, JSP, Servlets , ehcache, Struts , Java, EJB , JDBC, HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL. • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, maven, Jetty. • Worked on iText bug fixes for document rendition in document compile process. • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report. • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators. • Designed/Developed extensive additions to existing Struts/Java/J2EE Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  Environment: Spring,  memcache, SOA, Itext, JAVA, Hazalcast, J2EE, Hibernet, Jquery, TDD,  Struts, Oracle, Crud, Backbone, Ajax, Apache CXF, PL/SQL, REST, SVN, Eclipse, Agile, MAVEN, Junit, ILOG, UML, Jasper Report, JSP,  Mockito, SERVLET, Weblogic, Coherence, JDBD, Node, Angular, ehcache.
