Network Engineer
J.Crew Group, Inc. - New York, NY
Please read my full resume: https://www.dropbox.com/s/h1zkkgscurzkp47/Brian%20Moldovan%20Resume.pdf?dl=0  Responsibilities and accomplishments: •    New store device setup: Owned the network configuration process for new stores. I configured 2900 switches and routers and provided remote support for installation, testing and turnup. I am very experienced with managing devices in Solarwinds. •    Security: I worked to help make our store and wireless networks PCI compliant by implementing fixes and upgrades. I monitored the network daily for abnormal traffic using Stealthwatch netflow. I worked on numerous issues with our Websense proxies, fixing all and pushing the company to release patches for zero day issues we experienced. I was responsible for patches, hotfixes and troubleshooting. •    Wireless: I was responsible for wireless troubleshooting in the stores. I determined the best locations for our Motorola access points, configured new Aps remotely, piloted an inter-vlan printing solution, oversaw the upgrade to new Motorola NX 9500 controllers as well as troubleshooting Wi-Fi issues daily. I work with Airdefence for WiFi security and fixed vulnerabilities identified by pen testers and our PCI audit. I also have experience working with Cisco wireless APs and WLCs for users in our main offices around the country. •    Point of Sale: I fixed issues with routers, switches, printers, RF-Scanners, iPads and Point of Sale devices in the stores. •    Scripting: Created Python scripts to automate configuration changes on routers and switches requiring specific variables parsed from gathered log and SNMP data. I did this for numerous projects. •    Lab tested new code, configurations and hardware setups for store routers, Motorola wireless Aps and Cisco ASA firewalls. I setup our networking and register testing lab.  Projects worked on:  •    I am one of three who worked on our end to end encryption project to upgrade 80 switches and add new pin pads for each register at all stores. This was to comply with new retail credit standards and credit card security chips. I had complete responsibility over scripting and all configuration changes. I went onsite and performed the full network cutover at a few NYC stores. •    Worked to migrate 500 stores to a new internet provider. We switched from Verizon T1 primary with dial peer backup to ATT Broadband primary with cellular backups. Our project saved J.Crew $1 million a year over their previous configuration and increased store uptime and backup reliability.  •    Gained invaluable management experience handling store migrations day to day for months, documenting all of our work and took the lead to make sure store testing was completed. •    I worked to pilot a Mobile POS solution using iTouches to stores. This involved creating a new wireless network and making all necessary changes on our store routers and APs. •    Worked independently on a Websense Cloud proxy solution for our China offices to circumvent the China firewall issues. Configured our router overseas for split DNS, routing specific traffic, split tunnel VPN and IPSLA monitoring. •    Designed a pilot work-from-home solution for our call center staff involving a Cisco 810 router, 7945 IP phone and personal wireless router. Configured VPN tunnels, used Vlans to segment work from personal internet use, and implement QoS for phone traffic.    Skills Used Knowledge and Experience Cisco Network Design Cisco Network Troubleshooting Cisco 2900 Routers, 2900 Switches, ASA5500 Firewall, Catalyst 6500 Chassis, 3900 Wan Routers, Cisco 5500 Wireless Controller, Motorola RFS7000 Wireless Controller, Motorola NX9500 Wireless Controller BGP, OSPF, EIGRP Ethernet, VLANs, T1/ OC3, Broadband, Cellular SolarWinds Monitoring, Network Configuration Manager, VOIP & Network Quality  Opengear Lighthouse Console Server Cisco Secure ACS Netflow Scrutinizer  Lancope Stealthwatch Motorola AirDefence IP phone system in home offices, CUCM and Unity LogLogic Websense  Vendor Experience Verizon ATT eLoyalty Spacenet DSR Websense Cisco Lancope Motorola Opengear
