Java Developer
General Dynamics
HHSC HHSC (Health and Human Services Commission) maintains a portal called yourtexasbenefits.com for Texas citizens. It provides an avenue to find out the benefits and Medicaid help from government. User needs to register and provide the information and based on given information, system finds out the eligibility for Medicaid. This portal is modified to support mobile devices. Blue Button tool: It helps a patient to easily download their medical records and share with members of their health care system. It also helps the providers to access the medical records online and save and print for future references or store it as a soft copy and use it to feed other medical systems to transfer the patient health information. • Developed JSP, HTML, XHTML pages for compact and modified views worked on responsive web design. • Developed and tested the screens for compact and modified using chrome simulators. • Responsible for system analysis, design and development which is built on top of Java J2EE architecture and Spring 3.0 MVC. • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology. • Used Spring dependency Injection with spring framework. • Used liferay portlets and tomcat server. • Developed DAO layer using Hibernate and Spring. • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as DAO pattern, MVC pattern, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing. • Developed and maintained web services using RESTful API. • Performed Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit. • Used Borland Star Team Repository for Version Control. • Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL. • Deployed the code dev and test environments from version control. • Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project. • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems. Environment: Java 1.6, JDBC, JSP, JQuery, SOAP, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, HTML XHTML, JavaScript, Maven, Log4J, JUnit, HSQL, Eclipse IDE, Liferay portlets, Star Team.
