Java Developer
Dynamic Dreamz - Surat, Gujarat
Payroll Project This application was developed for our client Om Metals for their employee's management. It had 3 main modules namely Employee, Manager and HR. In employee module, employee can view their own profile and leave balances, apply for leave request. They also used to fill out their daily hours worked and sign their weekly timesheets. In manager module, manager used to approve employee's weekly timesheets and their leave. There were also able to modify employee personal details. Within HR module, HR can add/remove new/terminated employees from the system. They also used to process weekly timesheets and generate employee's monthly salary.  Responsibilities: * Gathered requirements from the client and designed business documents. * Developed various modules using Servlets, JSP, XML and CSS. * Created Tables, wrote SQL Queries in Oracle and invoked them from the front end. * Implemented front-end validations using JavaScript. * Written manual test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit. * Participated in code review sessions. * Managed source code using SVN version control and deployed changes across path to production. * Troubleshoot various software issues using debugging procedures. * Provided high-level support to customers and tracked issues using e-ticketing system.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, SQL, XML, CSS, SVN, JUnit  Online DVD Store Project This web application enabled DVD's sale management for our customer. There were two modules within our site i.e. Admin Module and User Module. In admin module, administrators can manage customer's personal information and manage DVD library whereas in user module, customers can purchase DVD's. We created a library which allows users to search DVD's based on different categories. It also allowed customers to add their orders to cart and enter shipping details. Once the order was received, the DVD's were shipped to customers in timely manner and payment was received through cash on delivery.  Responsibilities: * Involved in the requirement analysis and understanding of system requirements. * Developed web application using Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript and CSS. * Created database tables in MySQL and retrieved data on the front end using JDBC. * Provided support by addressing major enhancements and defects based on requirements.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, MySQL, HTML
