Sr. Java Developer
Hcentive - Lakewood, CO
Developed a secure, Internet-based remote care system for patients with implanted medical devices. This remote care system gathers and stores data from the implant procedure, in clinic follow-up visits and from both patient-initiated and automatic remote follow-ups and monitoring transmissions from the patient's home. This information gives physicians better and more immediate access to information to help the patients.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose. • Used Struts Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern. • Extensive use of HTML5 with AngularJS, JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with Java script for client side validation. • Converted obsolete Java web interface into a Rich Internet Application using Ext JS 5.0 • GUI Implementation using JQuery, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML5. • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js. • Experience in OOD, UML, Enterprise Java Beans EJB, RMI, Perl. • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server. • Scaled the component interactions and generalized the interfaces using SOAP web service. • Implemented Restful web services (JAX-RS) in the Application. •  Developed Servlets and Server side components using EJB 3.0 under J2EE Environment. • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols. • Develop data standards, data exchange, XML data standard or data sharing model • Used Hibernate as a ORM Framework. • Developed the rule modules using rules Engines, JBoss Drools, Drools Fusion. • Migrated Sybase Database to Microsoft SQL Server 2000 databases. • Development of REST Web services using Spring 4.xFramework. • Writing entities in Scala and Java along with named queries to interact with database. • Worked extensively on REST templates to consume the REST web services including security. • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables. • Implemented Hadoop for the AMC system where files are stored in HDFS and Cassandra is used as NoSqL Database , used Map reduce algorithms to extract required data, used Pig , Hive to extract data from HDFS. • Developed UNIX scripts to perform ETL process in vertica database and performed various tests to ensure that the end result was same as the existing system. • User grid facade is a Restful WS layer providing custom user management functionality over Cassandra database. • Bottle micro-framework implemented with REST API and Mongo DB (NoSQL) as back end database. • Wrote map-reduce views to extract data from NoSQL database CouchDB. • Used JSON to load data into JQUERY data grid. • Used JSON as response type in REST services. • Involved In Performance and SQL Query Optimization. • Knowledge on ISUP Ingress Gateway for using SIP for Voice Call Control which is capable of communicating with external network entities using SIP protocol • Used Maven for dependencies and configuration management. • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems. • Enforce compliance with dynamic processing and security policies by using Mule ESB • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications. •  Used SVN, CVS version control tool along with GIT •  Involved in developing the JSF/Rich faces pages • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF. • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system. • Worked on Agile methodologies.  Environment: Java 1.6, Struts 1.3, Spring 3.0, Apache Tomcat 6.0, REST, IBM® Websphere(TM) Application Server, IBM® Websphere(TM) Application Developer , Hadoop, Eclipse, , Oracle 10g, Mongo DB, Jenkins, Hibernate 3.0, Scala, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JavaScript, Angular Js, Design Patterns, gwt, Grails, HTML5, AJAX, JQUERY, CSS, Maven, Node.js, XML, PL/SQL, vertica, JDBC, UML, JNDI, JUnit, JAXB, Core Java, CVS, web services (JAX-RS), Log4J, Jboss Drools.
