UI Developer
HISNA - Irvine, CA
Responsibilities: • Designed and developed responsive web pages and templates using  HTML5, Handlebars, CSS3, Bootstrap, Json and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0. • Extensively used Node js, Angular js, JavaScript, jQuery UI and jQuery to provide UI functionality. • Worked on Express Node js platform for a single-page application development. • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly. • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML 4.0/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON. • Worked on Angular JS two-way data binding  between DOM and model, dependancy injection and handling GET, PUT operations with a webAPI controller on a group of posts. • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre- processor. • Involved in working with Home page Carousel and Slider. • Worked on Angular JS which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient. • Handling cross browser compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac. Used fall back codes. • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON. • Follow agile methodology and iteration planning. • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems). • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for Bug tracking. • Developed UI and implemented for some plug-in using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and XML. • Perform code review with peers to ensure code optimization and web optimization techniques are followed. • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY AJAX and JSON. • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Node.js, Backbone JS , Angular.js, JSP, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Information Architecture, Flash, SQL and Tomcat.
