Java Developer
California Department of Social Services In-Home Supportive Services Program - Sacramento, CA
The Case Management, Information and Payrolling System II (CMIPS II) tracks case information and processes payments for the California Department of Social Services In-Home Supportive Services Program, enabling nearly 400,000 qualified aged, blind, and disabled individuals in California to remain in their own homes and avoid institutionalization Responsibilities • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Java Script, HTML and XML using Struts/Spring MVC Framework. • Maintained good support with Business Analyst and Business Users to identify information needs as per business requirements. • Designing web pages for HTML with Rich design response UI to use libraries such as jQuery. • Developed J2EE Backing Beans, Action Classes, and Action Mapping and Application facades and hibernate classes to retrieve and submit using the JSF Framework. • Used XML parsing techniques for data handling and JavaScript front-end pages. • Wrote client side validations for DOJO and XML files which checks for the valid values for the different events that are being logged. • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Apache Struts Framework, XML, XSLT and JavaScript and worked using MVC pattern. • Involved in writing session beans, message driven beans and hibernate mapping files • Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP. • Designed middleware components using Struts Framework for interaction between front end and back end. Old part of code was modified in existing framework and new modules were added in Struts framework. • Worked on hibernate to save and retrieve data from java to Oracle database. • Coded middle layer components using Java J2EE for handling data transfer from backend to Front end. Used RAD 6.0 as tool for handling java coding and middleware components. • Worked extensively with Java 4 including threads, Java Servlets, and JDBC along with the SQL. • Written SQL queries in PL/ SQL wrote new stored procedures and modified existing ones depending on requirements in Oracle database.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts MVC, Hibernate, EJB, JavaScript, Spring, Eclipse, Rational Application Developer, Curam, WebSphere 6.5, MS SQL2008/2012, Web services, XML, UNIX.
