Tableau SME/Developer/Admin
CLS Bank
CLS (originally Continuous Linked Settlement) is a specialist US financial institution that provides settlement services to its members in the foreign exchange market (FX). Although the forex market is decentralised and has no central exchange or clearing facility, firms that chose to use CLS to settle their FX transactions can mitigate the settlement risk associated with their trades. CLS does this through the operation of a payment versus payment (PvP) settlement service which mitigates settlement risk for the FX transactions of its Settlement Members and their customers (Third Parties).  Responsibilities: • Involved in reviewing business requirements and analyzing data sources form Apache Hive, Excel/Oracle SQL Server for design, development, testing, and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects within Tableau Desktop.  • Created views in Tableau Desktop that were published to internal team for review and further data analysis and customization using filters and actions. • Designed and deployed reports with Drill Down, Drill Through and Drop down menu option and Parameterized and Linked reports using Tableau. • Involved in creating many complex Adhoc and Dynamic reports with calculated fields, filters, parameters, hierarchies, sets and groups. • Customized the Tableau Server Home page and designed own Reporting landing Page to give the user feel of a web portal. • Created Heat Map showing current service subscribers by color that were broken into regions allowing business user to understand where we have most users vs. least users. • Created dashboard using parameters, sets, groups and calculations. • Created drill down and drill up in worksheets. • Assisting users in creating and modifying worksheets and data visualization dashboards. • Involved in creating a dual-axis bar chart with multiple measures. • Created report schedules on Tableau server. • Created several types of visualizations using Sets, dynamic sorting etc. • Converted charts into Crosstabs for further underlying data analysis in MS Excel. • Created Bullet graphs to determine profit generation by using measures and dimensions data from Apache Hive, Oracle SQL Server and MS Excel. • Blended data from multiple databases into one report by selecting primary key's from each database for data validation. • Actively involved in testing new/upgraded features like new Visualizations, Forecasting, Data Blending, Parallelized Dashboard, Hyperlink Objects, Color-coded tabs etc. in Tableau 8.2 desktop/Server. • Combined views and reports into interactive dashboards in Tableau Desktop that were presented to Business Users, Program Managers, and End Users. • Reviewed basic SQL queries and edited inner, left, and right joins in Tableau Desktop by connecting live/dynamic and static datasets. • Developed story telling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server, which allowed end users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand needed information. • Worked with networking team to set Up the Tableau Server Installation Successfully. • Created Tableau Server Environment separately for Development and Production environment. • Adding user's to the Tableau Server and licensing the user's based on their role in the project. • Created User Groups based on the user role in the Project and provided the Access to the Groups. • Worked on Network Set Up for E-mail Subscriptions to the reports on Tableau server. • Created Different Schedules based on the requirement and used to create tasks to refresh and Subscriptions to the reports. • Scheduled data refresh on Tableau Server for weekly and monthly increments based on business change to ensure that the views and dashboards were displaying the changed data accurately. • Extensively used Tabadmin and Tabcmd commands in creating backups and restoring backups of Tableau repository. • Worked on Tableau Server Customization   to make user comfortable with look and feel of the portal by using Tableau Database. • Participated in meetings, reviews, and user group discussions as well as communicating with stakeholders and business groups.  Environment: Tableau Desktop 9.0, 8.2 & 8.1, Tableau Server 9.0, 8.2, Apache Hive, Oracle SQL developer, SQL server, SQL developer, MS Excel
