Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer
John Deere - Moline, IL
Deere & Company is an American corporation that manufactures agricultural, construction, and forestry machinery, diesel engines, drivetrains (axles, transmissions, gearboxes) used in heavy equipment, and lawn care equipment. John Deere also provides financial services and other related activities such as forcings. Responsibilities: • Developed Web interface using JSP, Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL), and Struts Framework. • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of application. • Presentation tier developed using Struts, writing Action Classes, Form Bean Classes and configure the application using Struts Configuration file. • Developed front end with JSP, Struts Tag libraries, JSTL and JavaBeans. • Used struts tiles framework for layout management. • Used Stateless Session Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to encapsulate the business logic. • Designed and implemented Business Delegate, Session Facade and DTO Design Patterns. • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer information to the supply chain and domain expertise Monitoring Systems. • Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory. • Involved in writing EJBs (Sate less Session Beans) and Web Services for building the middleware distributed components and deployed them on application servers. • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database. • Implemented spring framework for application transaction management. • Developed Web Services to integrate with the External System. • Extensively worked with XML using DOM and SAX parsers for transferring the data between different components. • Involved in implementing the Message Oriented Middleware for Asynchronous communication in Enterprise application. • Involved in developing EJB's Message Driven Bean (MDB) for asynchronous messaging. • Implemented Maven build tool to build jar files. • Used JavaScript for client side validations and Struts Validation for server side Validations. • Developed the Junit test cases. • Used Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow. • Supported deployment of application in multiple environments including SIT, UAT and Production Environment. • Implementing Agile process by managing the daily SCRUM meeting.  Environment: J2EE, WebLogic 8.1, Eclipse, Struts 1.0, JDBC, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Maven, Log4J, VSS, PL/SQL and Oracle 8i.
