Sr. Java Developer
MVC Architecture - Atlanta, GA
Responsibilities: • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE methodology. • Actively participated in Object Oriented Analysis Design sessions of the Project, which is based on MVC Architecture using Spring Framework. • Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. • Designed and developed entire application implementing MVC Architecture. • Developed front end of application using JSF components, validators and integrated with spring for navigating to different layers. • Involved in implementation of application using conventional design  practices (SOA-service oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller) • Used Spring framework for implementing IOC/JDBC/ORM, AOP and Spring Security to implemented business layer. • Implemented separate controller for each screen using Spring MVC components and created helper class to navigate into different layers. • Implemented Transaction management using Spring AOP aspects, point cuts and transaction manager. • Experience in building projects on AWS and running Amazon Elastic Cache • Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle 8i/9i/10g, PL/SQL. • Developed web tier by using Struts Framework and JSP's. • Design/Developed data model consists schema, tables and created corresponding mapping entities in Hibernate using annotations, mapping associations. • Implemented DAO layer implementations by creating Hibernate utilities with Hibernate core interfaces. • Developed application using Java Spring framework with multi-threading. • Implemented Hibernate Second level of caching to load entities at JVM start up time as part of performance improvement. • Developed the UI screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3. • Building skills in the following technologies: WebLogic, Spring Batch, Spring, Java. • Used XML SAX parser to simulate xml file which has simulated test data. • Designed/developed Rest based service by construction URI, developed service using JAX-RS annotations and Jersey implementation. • Used Junit, Easy mock framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology. • Developed integration techniques using the JMS along with Mule ESB to integrate different applications. • Used Oracle11g as backend database using Windows OS. Involved in development of Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers. • Involved in creating single page applications using Angular JS components, directives and implemented custom directive as part of implementing reusable components.  Environment: JAVA, Hibernate, Spring, Rest Web services, JSF, Angular JS, JMS, Mule ESB, Maven, Jenkins, HTML, JQuery, SVN, STS and Web Logic.
