Senior Java/J2EE Programmer
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan - Detroit, MI
Project: PGIP provider data is currently held in a variety of Access and Excel databases, and managed through a series of intensive manual processes. As PGIP continues to grow in size, these existing manual processes cannot be sustained and increase the risk of errors. In addition, there is an increased need for internal connectivity of PGIP data to other BCBSM programs. To facilitate such efforts, this project was initiated to build a software application to provide capabilities for value partnership such as Collection and maintenance of Physician Organization Demographic Data, Workflow Management for Business Processes, Standard and Analytical Reporting and Manage downstream feeds to a central data repository P-ODS.  Responsibilities: • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases of PGIP Redesign. • Implemented Agile development process on Software Development Life Cycle and done with effort estimations using Fibonacci. • Prepared design documents with Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Microsoft VISIO tool. • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC. • Used the spring modules of DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC. • Used Spring XML configuration for Dependency Injection. • Implemented Declarative transaction management using spring AOP - Aspects, point cut and Advices. • Used spring JDBC Template to do CRUD operations with Database. • Created WSDL documents as per GUI pages and generated the artifacts using AXIS tool. • Used JERSEY API to create Restful web services to support for ROI business processes. • Involved in creating internal & external services, Entity services and handlers. • Defined rules using JRules that are defined for resources to show details on UI pages. Followed up with Business Analysts to create conditions & business functions using JRules UI. • Written SQL queries & PL SQL - Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, sequences, and indexes, which are going to be invoked by Batch processes. • Created continuous integration builds using Ant & Jenkins. And deployed the application on WebSphere application server 8.1. • Used Drools to maintain single point of Business policy, simplify the complex logics & made it easy to be readable by BAs to update the rules based on the requirements. • Done with Web sphere application server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like QA/IST/Production. • Created JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool. • Ran check style, PMD defects & Find bugs to maintain Code Quality. • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization and Java 1.5+ features etc. • Developed web services and data synchronization services. • Configured Application server with SSL certificates to maintain security to the services.. • Addressed defects identified in IST, QA, UAT and Production phases. And tracked them using Jira. • Participated in Unit testing using JUNIT and MOKITO. • Tested SOAP web services using Soap UI. • Done with in peer and lead level design/code reviews. • Followed coding guidelines and Java & J2EE design patterns to develop the application. • Used IBM Clear case for version controlling & tracking. • Used IBM Optim tool for internal data storage and retrieval. • Conducted Unit Testing, Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Performed Load Testing with JMeter. • Supported IST, QA and UAT builds and identified issues in Smoke testing and tracked them efficiently. • Created continuous integration builds using Maven and cruise control. • Involved in deploying the application in UNIX and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects. • Utilized external tools like Putty and FileZilla to work with remote files and connecting to remote systems. • Worked with QA team to validate the test cases whether the test cases meeting business Requirements or not. • Coordinated with Performance team to get thread dumps & tuned java as well as DB2 code.  Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, XML, HTML, XSD, XSLT, Drools, XPATH, JAXP, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, Spring frame work- DI, AOP, MVC, JDBC Templates, REST, JAX-RS, CXF, IBM MQ Series, RAD 8.0, WebSphere Application Server 8.1, JUNIT, Clear Case, SOAPUI, JMeter,  EMMA, Ant, HP QC, DB2, IBM Optim tool
