freelance software developer while pursing my undergrad degree
Freelancer
Use to develop software and websites for companies on contract basis. My computer skills list the technologies I have used for developing different projects depending upon the customer's requirement.  Computer Skills: Proficient: Linux(Ubuntu/Debian), Windows OS, Microsoft Visual Studio, C++, C#, Mac OS X, ASP.NET, PHP, JavaScript, Python, Visual Basic.  Working knowledge: Java, SQL, HTML, Network device and peripherals (router, switches, hubs etc.), Swift Language, Kali Linux(backtrack), WordPress, OpenWrt, DD-Wrt, VOIP, TCP/IP, DHCP, LDAP, DNS, VPN's and Network Security.  Familiar: J2EE, Angular JS, Photoshop, Microsoft Office, Android Studio, Xcode, Git, Cloud, AJAX, UNIX, Microsoft Azure, Google cloud services, Openstack, SOAP & REST web services, Hadoop.  Academic Projects: Final year project: Decision Support System for Medical Diagnosis Using Data Mining • Medical diagnosis by learning pattern through the collected data and representation of its tabular and graphical form (pic chart and bar chart) for better and easy understanding of the patient's medical condition. • Project involved developing role based access system, creating event driven access and file sharing system through the intranet. • The technologies used to develop this project were ASP.NET and SQL.  Courses: Web Technology. Project: Net Banking • Requirement gathered to understand the modules to be included in the project, listed the requirements and performed feasible study. • Designed the Front-End using HTML, JavaScript and CSS. • Created a database in MySQL. • Created module for search techniques using AJAX and PHP.  Mini Project: DMZ using OpenWrt (DD-Wrt) and Linux libraries • Created a OpenWrt virtual machine • Configured network ports and other i/o • Installed and configured DMZ firewall • Diploma Project: Gallery Server. • Designed a cloud drive for storing and sharing of file online. • The project was built using ASP.NET and AJAX with the integration of SQL for database. • The project happened to qualify for top 5 projects for that academic year as it was easy to use even thought it had many functionalities.
