Software Test Engineer
HP
Test lead for DVT test team for a new Blade Enclosure product.  Testing the Management features of the Enclosure Manager component. The team supports functional component firmware testing using the Enclosure Manager REST API. ● Used a Microsoft Windows 2008 test head in Vmware to test physical enclosures including Enclosure Manager, Interconnect Modules, Blades, power supplies and fans ● Interfaced with Development Team  to coordinate and write the team User Stories related to test automation and product features ● Code review lead. Use git/gerrit for code review and code management. Reviewed Robot Framework  keywords and python code ● Setup daily regression testing using Jenkins. Setup Dashboard to report the test results ● Wrote Quality Plan for Management features of the product ● Participated in Test Plan Reviews ● Tested the CAN bus message interface between the interconnect modules and enclosure manager. Wrote positive/negative automated tests to validate the message blocks contents. Wrote python functions to properly encode/decode the message block data ● Tested the Enclosure ‘Ekey’ features that grants/denies blade power based on mezzanine card/ interconnect module matching rules. Tested various mezz card Fru combinations to validate matching criteria. Captured enclosure manager alerts to validate proper notification using automated testing ● Wrote SUT(system under test) model in python including methods to access the model. Team wrote tests to the model. Improved the need to refactor tests and was more adaptable to underlying changes to the product ● Wrote a http event logger in python. The SUT emitted events that were captured by the logger and used for test validation as part of the test automation ● Wrote a console debugger to use for test development, with the ability to make rest calls, handle events, issue Diagnostic commands ● Optimized the performance of the daily regression run, over 1000 test cases, including creating a parallel test runner using PowerShell, and modifying test cases to reduce overall test time ● Moved test framework and test case repo into a docker container to improve the portability of running tests ● Attended team and development team scrums, PO meetings, Held team test lead meetings  Test lead for system testing of Continuous Hours of Operation (CHO) testing of a CI (Converged Infrastructure) VM (Virtual Machine) appliance (java web application) and OS deployment VM appliance (java web application).  These products manage server, network and storage physical provisioning and OS deployment. ● Developed automation scripts using Powershell, utilizing an internal test framework, to test the appliance using rest API  ● Create automation scripts using Powershell to configure test environment, SAN provisioning through components cli. Used plink to ssh to the SAN console to setup WWN for the test requirement ● Use the framework to query the SQL database for test validation ● Created automation scripts using Python to create test report summaries ● Led team to develop/run test scenarios supporting testing thru product release ● Wrote test plan  ● Reported status to project team, held meetings to determine test priority, defect triage/escalation, remove technical barriers, train junior testers Reported defects and worked w/ product team thru defect resolution ● Wrote UI test, using Python and Webdriver, to test product, using three browsers (Firefox, Chrome, IE)
