DevOps / Build & Release Engineer
DIRECTV - Los Angeles, CA
Responsibilities: • As member of Release Engineering group, redefined processes and implemented tools for software builds, patch creation, source control, and release tracking and reporting, on UNIX platform. • Maintained and administered GIT source code tool. • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT. • Support the code builds by integrating with continuous integration tool (Jenkins). • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution. • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process. • Used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments. • Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows. • Managed to deliver specific versions of various components of an application into target environments. • Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when the servers are full and need attention. • Modeled the structure for multi-tiered applications orchestrate the processes to deploy each tier. • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. • Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus, Yum and puppet. • Have used Confluence to create, share and discuss content and projects. • Familiar and experienced with Agile Scrum development. • Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile development in Subversion. • Created Branches, and performed Merges in Source Tree & Stash • Automating the regular tasks in Subversion and streamlining the process of access to SVN.  Migrated Projects from SVN to GIT. • Excellent problem solving, analytical skills and technical troubleshooting skills. •  Clarity and precision in verbal and written communications. •  Worked with customers, developers, testing, product management and support staff. •  In-depth understanding of large complex software systems to isolate defects, reproduce defects, assess risk and understand varied customer deployments. • Good experience in AWS (Amazon Web Services) including deploying new server instances through automation with CHEF and Jenkins. • By Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Subversion, Jenkins, JIRA, Maven, GIT, ANT, Puppet, AWS, Python, Remedy, Unix Shell Scripting.
