Sr. Java Developer
AT&T - Atlanta, GA
Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications corporation, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone and the largest provider of fixed telephone in the United States, and also provides broadband subscription television services. The strategic objectives are: ➢ To have a single point of authentication ➢ Design a common user interface to allow a customized but consistent user experience ➢ Develop a set of common login services which can be leveraged by all applications Responsibilities: • Responsible for design, development, coding, code review and testing. • Followed Waterfall Software Development methodology • Applied OOAD, MVC design patterns and best practice. • Work with Business Analyst to prioritize the tasks for each release. • Work with other teams to resolve dependency during integration of the application and prioritize work based on that. • Developed application based on Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module and used Interceptors and Filters • Developed Rest Style web-service for the interaction between Application UI and Spring Controller. • Used AJAX and JavaScript to handle requests; and CSS was used to keep uniformity in look of the application. • Worked with RESPONSYS for email integration with CLA application • Implemented EHCACHE for caching the data in the server side • Perform general PostgreSQL database tuning. • Implemented background multi-threaded daemon classes to keep the cache updated and in sync with the underlying database. • Developed services to consume SOAP Endpoint to retrieve data from other system. • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages • Deployed the application to WebSphere application server • Build components scheduling and configuration using Maven • Developed and Designed JUnit Automation Testing Framework for using Selenium WebDriver and JAVA from ground in Agile Environment. • Wrote unit test cases using JUnit framework, Mockito and Component • Created Hudson Job for continuous deployment of application to development servers. • Worked on Adhoc request to create services for FORD site • Involved in converting two of the existing project from ant to maven specific and used NEXSUS for repository management Environment: JDK6, Spring, REST Web Services (JAX-RS), SOAP, Responsys, IO/NIO , Agile, MyEclipse, Maven, SVN, JIRA, UNIX, JUNIT, AJAX, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, WebSphere Application Server, Hudson, Ant, XML Parser, JSON, SOAP UI.
