IBM Rational Software Architect
Office of Attorney General - Austin, TX
Location: Austin, TX Duration: Sept '14 - Current Project: TXCSES Web  Description: TXCSES Web is an internet web based application used by the staff of Attorney General, Counties, Employers and various Child support offices spread over Texas. It provides services to the parents wishing to obtain/provide support for their children. The system allows the OAG and County Users to create/update and access the Case Information, Work Orders on the TXCSES Mainframe screens via Portal. The Custodial/Non-Custodial parents/Attorneys can login to the system to check the case status, payment records and income verification reports. The Employer One Stop program facilitates the employers partnering with the OAG to fulfill the child support responsibilities. The system in collaboration with multiple Vendor systems especially for Payments and Processes is responsible for the disbursements and collections made to the CSD.  Responsibilities: • Installed and configured required software's for application development (IBM Rational Software Architect, TOAD, Web Sphere Portal and Application servers, required framework jar's) • Responsible for designing and developing the Portlets using the Struts1.x framework • Developed Action and helper classes to implement the business logic • Configured TOAD to work with oracle and Oracle to work in the complicated queries required for the Dao layer development. • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Javascript, CSS and Struts built-in form validations • Created Portal Pages, applied themes and set user level and application level permissions • Extremely involved with web services development. Developed Web Service Client projects to support the functionality of the vendor system. • Responsible for design and development of the new Kiosk and Mobile web projects. Developed new theme to support the responsive behavior. •  Written test cases for unit testing using JUnit testing framework •  Modified the existing Frontend and Backend code for different levels of enhancements •  Involved in designing error handling and error logging flow •  Implemented design patterns of Singleton, Factory pattern and MVC. •  Configured development, QA and integration servers on UNIX boxes deployed and maintained application in these servers. • Created jasper reports (pdf, .jasper) using iReport designing tool. • Responsible to fix the trouble tickets created, issues raised by the QA.  Environment: JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Portlets, Struts 1.1, SOAP Web Services, Rational Software Architect, Rational Clear Case, RationaI Quality Manager, Core FTP, IBM Portal Server 8.0.0.1, IBM Application Server 8.5, J2SE/J2EE, TOAD, Hibernate, Oracle, LOG4J, Jasper, iReport Designer, Bootstrap, Just In Mind
