Python Developer
Value Options Inc - Norfolk, VA
Responsibilities: • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques. • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution. • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. • Used the Django Framework to develop the application. • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. • Used Django APIs for database access. • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization. • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance. • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies. • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data. • Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning. • Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application. • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. • Worked on Python Open stack API's. • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package. • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. • Worked with JSON based REST Web services. • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub. • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile). • Performed QA testing on the application.  Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, Flex, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile.
