Java/J2EE Developer
Bank of America - Charlotte, NC
Project Title: Bank of America Loan Processor Description: Bank Of America Loan Processor is an intranet based loan servicing application. BOA provides monetary assistance to its employees by providing loans on a short term basis. BOALP automates the loan application and servicing processes. The employees can apply, track approval and monitor the loan balance throughout its life cycle. The application is also integrated into the payroll system so as to deduct loan payments directly from the employee's monthly paycheck.  BOALP has a sophisticated alerts and monitoring components as well.  Responsibilities: • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. • Used Design patterns during the analysis and requirement phase of SDLC • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser • Created frontend using EXTJS5 framework and developed UI screens using CSS and JQuery. • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags. • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components. • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database. • Developed RESTful web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality. • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting various plans from different module and used XML for SOAP messages. • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose. • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process. • Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) are used to implement the business logic. • Developed Approved requirements with assign share functionality using JSP and mail notification using JMS. • Used Subversion(SVN) for software version control. • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Test Driven Development, Scrum.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2ee, Spring 3.2, Hibernate 4.1, Struts2, AJAX, EXTJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, Oracle, SOAP, Web Services, Eclipse, Subversion, Junit, JSP, JSTL, Maven, XML, WebSphere application server 8.1, JMS, Apache tomcat.
