Programmer Analyst
Cognizant Technology Solutions
Trained in C++, Java, UNIX System Programming and MySQL  TECHNICAL SKILLS • Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, Python, MATLAB, Shell Scripting • Databases: SQL, PL/SQL • Web Technologies: HTML, JSP • Mobile Development: Android • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux • Tools and IDEs: Eclipse, MATLAB, Android Studio • Concepts: Procedure Oriented and Object Oriented Programming  PROJECTS • Image Steganography using DWT and Huffman Coding Image steganography is the art of hiding a secret image in another image known as the cover image. This helps the user for the secure transmission of images. At the receiving end other party can recover the secret image by using the secret key which will be known only to the sender and the receiver.  Responsibilities: - 1. Embedding secret image in cover image 2. Recovering secret image from the cover image  •    Cloud hosted key sharing for securing shared data Cloud hosted key sharing for securing shared data is intended for organizations which have to ensure security for data that is being accessed by multiple users. The shared data is encrypted and encryption key will be divided and shared between the authorized users. Any user should acquire threshold number of key shares from the other key share holders and this can be done  1 through android platform. The threshold number depends on the security level of the data. Any user can get access to the data by only submitting the threshold number of key shares.  Responsibilities: - 1. Generation of key shares 2. Regeneration of original key from key shares  •   Bank Management System (BMS) Bank Management System is an online platform that enables customers to perform basic banking operations like creating a bank account, depositing money, withdrawing money, taking bank loans, generation bank statements, etc. The customer logs in using the user id and the password and then he can perform the above mentioned banking operations.  Responsibilities:- 1. Handle withdrawal operations 2. Handle deposit operations.
