Ruby / Javascript Developer
CLM Group
Design of real-time bidding system  ➢ Designing prototypes and mockups for a real-time bidding system.  System is processing bids from web and mobile devices. Design the UI-UX, process flow and personas for the various roles encompassing the Use Cases in the design  Technology Used: Angular, Ruby, balsamiq, Photoshop  Tablet based HTML5 Mobile App ➢ Custom system developed primarily for medical professionals within a health service center. Nurses can view schedules, assignments and communicate with administrators to advise patient statuses. Billing and payroll reports also added in later release. UI/ UX and Javascript work.  Technology Used: backbone, Ruby, jQuery, Ext JS  Canvas based Rendering Application ➢ Application for front-end rendering and design. User is able to create templates and build a template store using multiple tools within the canvas frame. Multiple images, actions, and icons allowed the user to design their own template within the canvas. Application allowed for saving of the multiple templates which were then served on a mobile device.  Technology Used: Ruby, Raphael, Angular, backbone  Eco Friendly Store Portal ➢ E-Commerce Portal for eco friendly store to handle online purchases of environmentally friendly products. Over 20,000 SKUs and 5,000 vendors processed. Integration with SalesForce. UI/ UX work.  Technology Used: Ruby, Angular, jQuery, knockout  Real-estate Application ➢ Developed application where users can browse listings and contact real estate agents. Agents can enter listings and edit information as well as add pictures. Search and filter capabilities are accessible to all users as well as bookmarking favorites and emailing listings.  Technology Used: Ruby, backbone, Ext JS, node  Custom Commission portal for large Consulting firm ➢ System developed for sales team to log in and track leads, view goals, view competitor rates, view sales history. Administrators can set view/ edit permissions, monitor sales trends, and set commission structures on a per user basis. Supported 10,000+ users. Javascript front-end work.  Technology Used: Angular, node, underscore  Custom BI, KPI and Data drilldown Tool ➢ Developed custom system for clients to submit required documents, check payments, collections, and payroll. Clients can set up where IRS tax returns should be sent. Includes messaging capability between accountants and clients. UI/ UX and Javascript work.  Technology Used: Angular, backbone, underscore
