Java/ J2EE Developer
Wells Fargo - Raleigh, NC
Responsibilities: • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework. • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules. • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript. • Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architectur • Created Dialog boxes using DOJO for better look and feel. • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM. • Some sample tests were incorporated using Multi-Threaded Java Applets, Java Scripts were used for playing audio clips and to the make the price lists interactive to the User • Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for SDWCS operators and other agencies using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. • Designed GUI with help of Struts Tiles, CSS, using Ajax for data multiplication as well as data validation • Created the Mock-ups using HTML and JavaScript to understand the flow of the web application • Create presentation layer using Struts2 tags and themes (HTML/XHTML) and JQuery/Prototype/DWR for AJAX functionality • Hooked up the JSP plugins with spring bind and JSTL tags in the HTML pages • Provided weekly content updates for marketing web site using HTML and CSS. • Strong understanding & expertise in web technologies like HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX. • Created a demo website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, and Backbone.js with Mustache.js for front end MVC/templating • Developed browser based JavaScript application for mobile and desktop using Angular and Custom SASS solution. • Created of  interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and  JQUERY • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Backbone.js, and Celery •  Designed and Developed User Interactive Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, and AJAX • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database • Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications. • Created db tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL • Configured Oracle connection pool, which is included in Oracle JDBC driver JAR file, to allow concurrent access to the database and optimize performance. • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence • Skills used: Mongo.DB, Express.js, Angular.js, Node.js • Exposing and consuming the services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and Apache camel • Designed and Developed WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager. • Installation and configuration of Development Environment using Eclipse with Weblogic Application server •  Hands on experience on WebSphere Portal Personalization Engine and its customization • Expertise in using version control systems such as CVS, clear case, SVN and GIT • Technology Stack: Java, Eclipse, XML, GitGui, Git Hub, Jenkins, Jetty, Maven, JSF, RichFaces, AJAX, DB2, IBM Filenet, HP Extreme, HP QC, IBM Mainframe, Web Services, Springs MVC, TDD, SQL, JUnit, JMockit • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application. • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium. • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum. • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery • Integration of Reports generated using Jasper Report in PDF and HTML as per the user preference Development of Stored Procedures and Functions in Oracle PL SQL. • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework. • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts. • Designed and implemented business functionality for WEB system hidden login authentication, agent import and "can see" using the following technologies: JAXB, SAX, XML, and Servlets. • Dynamically generated PDF file to browser by using iText • Provides support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA. • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable. • Defining XOM, BOM and Parameters in ILOG Rule studio • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules. • Designed and currently developing 3 Tier Web 2.0 based price management system using GWT, Grails and MySql. Used and using Talend Open Studio to load data into the new system from the legacy data formats • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware. • The middleware interaction used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework. • IBM Websphere hosting and Apache Tomcat webserver integration - both on Windows and AIX platform. •  Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client. • Providing support & development of web based applications and TCP/IP socket applications in UNIX, using PHP 5, C, Perl, JavaScript, Oracle 10G, MS SQL, t-sql, Pl/SQL, openSSL.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO , SenchaExtJs , Javascript, CSS, Ajax, HTML5, DB2, Crud, Pl/ SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Coherence, Node.js, Git, Websphere Portal, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, Javaserver pages standard tag library (JSTL), Github, MongoDB, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle Enterprise Content Management (Oracle ECM ), GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, WEB 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP.
