Java/J2EE Developer
PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA
Responsibilities: • Analysed the requirements and involved in the documentation of technical design documents, Class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using UML. • Provided both Technical and Development support  for complex and critical applications. • Worked on the different solutions to improve the performance of the application. • Participated in low level design and requirement understanding with functional team. • Used OOAD and OOP's concept like Abstraction, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Encapsulation, Modularity using Java for designing Interfaces, classes and business methods in Java Extensively used Java Collections and Reflection API • Implemented multithreading concepts for caching application data. • Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and Design patterns. • Developed screens using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Struts, spring, Java1.5, EJB3.0 and XML Implemented MVC architecture using spring and Struts frameworks combined with EJB 3.0 JPA for database persistence. • Used Struts Tiles Framework to structure core application webpage layouts and to assemble the JSPs. Also created various common tags that are used for handling common functionalities like data element filtering, Parent/Child dropdowns etc. • Developed test harness to test the web services which helps test teams to test web service components independently using various request and response xml. • Used Springs Dependency Injection feature and configured Function Action classes as Spring Beans for redirecting the user request to the appropriate class which implements corresponding business functionality. • Developed Persistence Framework consisting of components like Persistence Code Generator, Persistence Manager and Data Access Objects which hides JPA complexities and offers transparent access to database. • Used SQL/PLSQL to perform complex database operations and generated various stored procedures, functions for DML operations. • Developed Junit test cases. Involved with testing team to determine dependency towards removing bottlenecks and ensuring smooth testing process. • Involved in various internal releases of the application and supported the application modules during testing and pre-production phases.  Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework-2.5, Struts, EJB 3.0, JPA, Oracle 10g, TOAD, AJAX, Log4J, ANT, Junit, Web Logic, Eclipse, Rational Clear Case, Web Services.
