Java developer
State Street Corporation - Princeton, NJ
Responsibilities: • Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation/translation of Business User requirements. • Designed, Developed & implemented Web services on State street's cloud platform. • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture. • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and Prepared different framework design documents. • Employed popular design patterns like DTO, DAOand Singleton. • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collectionand integrating the modules. • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer. • Developed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, sequence and activity diagrams. • Developed ETL framework which flexible to handle - DB2 DB, file2DB, xml2DB, Web service to file. • Extensively used Quartz scheduler to schedule the automated jobs and Created POC for running batch jobs. • Participated in the design and development of almost all the modules of the project. •  Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers. • Used SVN, CVS, CLEARCASE   as a version control tools. • Automate build process by writing ANTbuild scripts. • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and Experience in solving the cloud issue. • Configured and customized logs using Log4J. • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. • Worked in Agile Scrum environment and used Kanban board to track progress.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Oracle Exadata, Tomcat, Linux, Eclipse CDT, Rational UML, State Street Cloud offered tools, SQL developer, Clear Case, Jenkins, Junit, Cute FTP, WinSCP, Putty, SVN, Agile RTC, Colud development toolkit (GWT)
