Java J2EE developer
Internet Banking - Charlotte, NC
Risk Profile/Account Closing/Internet Banking The various processes related to closing a bank account  such as product selection, identification and verification of the customer, calculating the fees and charges, managing the fees and charges, managing the authorization, fund releasing and producing closure summary to the customer has been identified. Consolidating and linking Different accounts like savings, checking, Credit cards, Retirement and Investment plans.Worked on Customer facing applications related to Bill payments, Enhancements to the centralized system were developed to integrate these processes. The other module of project was to build risk profiles for customers for the bank that has multiple consumer lines of business by analyzing the customer activity across multiple products to predict credit risk with greater accuracy. Over the year, Confidential has acquired lot of regional banks and each one has got checking and savings business, home mortgage business, credit card offerings and so on. The goal is to compute risk scores for each customer profile based on information such as outstanding loans etc.  • Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IoC). Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IoC framework. • Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, Simple Factory Pattern, Data Transfer Object. • Implemented Spring-hibernate as Data Access Layer. • Utilized the JQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript framework to render widgets on web pages. • Developed Hibernate and Spring-based application configuration framework for simulating database configuration. • Design and development of Web Services using Rest with Spring MVC. (Spring MVC, Spring Security, Apache CXF Rest) • Git for source code maintenance. • Authored persistence layer JDBC using Hibernate API and created Data Models and Java Bean. • Designed GUI using AJAX, CSS, XSLT, Java Script, XML • Designed & developed the transaction management configuration of the system. (AOP) • Construction of the Source Code as per the technical specification document. • Completion of modules as per defined scheduled without any delays. • Used Hibernate for accessing data from Oracle 10g database, Configured hbm access files for accessing Database. • Used Jboss as application server to implement JMS and EJB components  • Participated in SCRUM meetings and worked on Agile methodologies. • Used Jasper Report for generating reports and Jfree for generating graphs.  Environment:Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Webservices, JMS, JPA2.x, XML, Junit, Ant, XSLT, SVN, Oracle, PL/SQL
