Technical Consultant - Vmware/Storage
Bank Of America
Experience in Administration of VMware ESXi 5.0/ 5.1/ 5.5 environment implementation with EMC SAN storage. • Experience in Administration of EMC VNX/VMAX SAN storage. • Experience in troubleshooting the VMware L3 issues with SAN storage and VM migrations • Experience in VMware SRM 5 deployment with SAN Replication using recovery point • Expertise in providing support for Windows 2008/2012 servers and ADS • VMware implementation and Administration with Cisco UCS /VNX • Worked on Cisco UCS Blade server administration • Deployed VMware vSphere 5.0/5.1/5.5 on Cisco UCS environment • Involved in large P2V migration using Platespin/ Doubletake tools • Configuring Compute components like Cisco UCS. • Experience with deploying and managing Brocade DCX4 and Cisco MDS9509 and VMware distributed switch. • Planning and Implementation of Storage on the Creating Raid Groups for Boot Lun's depending on the number of ESX Hosts being created, Virtual Pools for thin provisioning. • Monitored the entire VBlock hardware • Installed the EMC Power Path across all the ESXi Hosts. • Generated scripts to extract the configuration values on vCenter. • Upgraded the QLogic HBA drivers on the Cisco C200 M2 servers. • Implemented the mixed bladed environment in VBlock environment. • Monitoring the Cisco MDS 9506, Cisco Fabric Interconnects 6140, Nexus 5020 switches. • Knowledge transfers for the client on VNX 5300(unified) and Recoverpoint as they are using the EMC storage for the first time.  • Creating SANCOPY sessions for the luns between IBM and VNX.  • Determining the accurate values for latency and Throttle values for the SANCOPY session to happen disruptively.  • Activating DATA Movers and helping the environment for their first time process working on FILE storage.  • Administering Windows 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory, DNS, DHCP and building new windows physical/virtual servers as per the requirement of the project  • Implementation of VMAX FAST and FAST Policy. • Implementation of ESRS and Call home services for VMAX and Cisco MDS Switches. • Implemented Disaster Recovery through SRDF/A from VMAX-VMAX and provided documentation procedures for future use for SRDF/A using SMC and SYMCLI. • Implementation of EMC Celerra with CIFS, NFS and Multiprotocol FS. • Experience in administration of Cisco MDS SAN switches. • Supported a large scale Data Center projects including server installation, hardware maintenance, and break/fix activities. • Successfully implemented FAST VP for VMAX on VMware and helped in analyzing the performance related issues. • Implementation and upgrade services for Celerra NS480 and NS960 • Assisting with implementation and upgrade services CISCO MDS switches - 9513, 9509, 9222i • Creating, adding and deleting aliases, zones, and activating zonesets on CISCO switches • Creating and implementing Disk groups, Device groups, and Composite groups using SymCLI. • Installation, configuration, and deployment of a variety of hosts in the following environments Windows, Linux, and Solaris. • Install and configure all EMC layered applications. • Responsible for the design and implementation of a full storage refresh for the Enterprise. • Establishes standard processes and procedures for system. • Evaluated and documented the requirements and created new test cases according to the test plan and was responsible to document the test case results. • Created and executed test cases for a clustered NAS project.
