Sr UI Web Developer
Agilone - Sunnyvale, CA
Description: AgilOne is a predictive marketing cloud that helps retailers deliver omni-channel experiences in order to increase customer loyalty and profitability. It offers turnkey dashboards and customizable, sharable reports, including many built-in business and marketing performance reports to help you identify revenue generating opportunities.  Responsibilities: • Developed UI based layout of wireframes • Designed mockup web pages and graphics in photo shop • Contributed as key resource of the "Angular JS Framework Team" in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application to Angular JS based UI. •  Implemented applications using twitter Bootstrap framework • Developed internal and external validation code using JavaScript. • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular js and Bootstrap with MYSQL database. • Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS3, Angular JS Framework and HTML5. • Participate in wireframe reviews with UX team to understand the requirements. • Used Angular JS Framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP Framework as well as using Restful services. • Convert the wireframes to HTML5/CSS3 that are fluid in nature which will fit in varying resolutions for Mobile & Tablet. • Implemented presentation layer using CSS Framework, Backbone,  Angular JS, Knockout JS, wire-framing, HTML5. • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, and Ajax. • Designed table-less layouts using CSS3 and appropriate HTML5 tags as per W3C standards. • Implemented custom validations controls for various forms with the help of JavaScript validation controls. • Used DOJO for asynchronous communication with the client side code. • Migrated jquery code to dojo. • Developed OOD/OOP applications various design patterns • Used JQuery plug-in for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. • Front-end web development using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and JQuery. • Designed and developed Web applications using CSS pre-processors. • Involved in code reviews and mentoring the junior team members. • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Tempnet Framework.  Environment: Java, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML, JSP, jQuery, MS SQL Server 2008, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), TFS, SQL Profiler, Windows 7, Microsoft Office 2010, Microsoft Outlook, ERwin, HP Quality Center, SharePoint, Visual Studios 2008.
