Python full stack Developer
Replicon Software Inc - Redwood City, CA
Principally developed solutions that ensure the best performance and user experience as well as implemented multifaceted, high performance enhancements using Python and its frameworks and tools. The Project is to  development of drug development and treatment tracking system. Also there was Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System. Also I was involved in the migration of classic ASP to python  using server transfer. Responsibilities: • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system. • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks. • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution. • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization • Chef to Puppet Conversion • Conversion of 300+ Chef Recipes and Cookbooks to Puppet Manifests and Puppet modules. • Automated the Conversion process • Used Puppet Rspec for testing • Provided documentation for DevOps and Network Engineering Teams • Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto library. • Contruct a dynamic form in a new Classic ASP page consisting of their names and values as hidden form fields. • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/PYTHON. • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client. • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients. • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macros •  Connected Flex from Spring Controller using different API services. • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning. • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing of the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated. • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA • Automate the outbound/inbound EDI document to drop files in the client ftp server • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.
