Java/J2EE Developer
Deloitte, VA
Project: VA IES (VIRGINIA INTEGRATED ELIGIBILITY SYSTEMS) Deloitte is the implementation partner for Virginia department of social services in creating a self-service environment to improve service quality and reduce cost for the State of Virginia by modernizing their existing Eligibility and Enrollment Services System. It also aimed to  provide elegant  solution to determine eligibility and deliver health and human services programs such as Medicaid/State Children's Health Insurance Program (MA/S-CHIP), Food Stamps (SNAP), Child Care and Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF). This flexible solution focused on all the aspects of those programs, including eligibility determination, case management, customer service, reporting, performance measurement and service integration by leveraging the existing system with new technologies. Responsibilities: ✓ Involved in all phases of SDLC in requirement gathering, design, development, analysis, and maintenance. ✓ Developed EJB components for implementing business logic. ✓ Developed web applications using the proprietary framework BRIDGES. ✓ Created, scheduled and managed batch jobs. ✓ Developed front-end components and designed user-interface using HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, and AJAX. ✓ Used XML Technologies like JAXB and JAXP (DOM and SAX Parsers). ✓ Implemented SOAP web services for cross platform XML based communication as a producer and consumer. ✓ Created SQL queries, stored procedures and generated reports with SQL server. ✓ Used JUNIT for unit testing log4j for logging. ✓ Used JDBC for querying, inserting and data management with stored procedures. ✓ Used Data Access Objects (DAO) and Value Object (VO) for data access functionality. ✓ Worked on maintenance and production support for the application. ✓ Implemented lot of Batch programs using flat-pack and bean IO frameworks. ✓ Used Control-M and Dollar Universe schedulers for scheduling the batch jobs. ✓ Used MAVEN to manage package dependency and for standard directory structures.  Environment: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, SQL Server, RAD, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JUNIT, Websphere Application Server, jUnit, Restful Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, AJAX, and XML, Control-M, flatpack, Bean IO, dollar universe, MAVEN.
