Java and Splunk Developer
Infinity Insurance - Birmingham, AL
Infinity Property & Casualty Corporation is a national provider of car insurance. Infinity brand provides Non Standard car insurance through more than 12500 independent agents. Nonstandard insurance serves individuals unable to secure coverage through standard insurance companies. Infinity offers three types of personal car insurance policies which differ based on the amount of coverage they provide. Infinity also sells commercial vehicle and classic collector or exotic automobile policies.  Responsibilities: • Gathered the Requirements for the project • Designed Architecture for the project and involved setting up the technologies for the project. • Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, and XML and HTML for testing interface for the project. • Designed JSP page to handle the input HTTP request. • Developed Spring MVC to handle the input request and send back the response. • Designed XML formatted output response using JAX-B and annotations parser for data retrieval. • Consumed SOAP Web Service using JAX-WS Client. • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) for mapping java objects to oracle relational data model. • Involved in configuring JNDI properties and used Data Source objects for database communication. • Deployed the application on JBoss Application Server. • Used Junit, Mockito, PowerMock framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. • Worked with Agile, Pair Programming development methodology and built the application with Behavior Driven Development (BDD). • Developed Splunk reports that provide a high level overview of the Application Health. • Dashboards developed are engineered into 3 standards based on the authority levels. • Used SVN version control for implementing the application. • Used Find Bugs, PMD and Coverage tools for good Practices. • Involved in building Jenkins Jobs. • Used MAVEN as a build tool.  Environment: JDK , J2EE,  Spring,  JSP, Servlets,  XML , SOAP, WSDL,  DOM, JavaScript,  JBoss, HTML, JNDI, Log4J, Junit, Maven , PMD, SVN, Hibernate, Eclipse, Source Safe.
