PHP Developer
Sonata Services
Project Description:Develop custom applications/software for customers around the world, always seeking for the best quality and the highest user experience, seeking for the use of the best coding standards, constant communication with customers. Under my responsibility it is the selection of the technology to use, and the development assembly line to follow, currently working with PHP as main Language, MySQL for backend and JavaScript for UI/UX. Responsibilities: • Customer Discovery, taking care of the customer goal product, doing a deep research to the customer vision, and of course detecting possible weakness during development. • Project Planning, Arrange of the customer project management tool, with times, deadlines and effort that would be required for each iteration, running on Agile methodologies. • Software Architecture, using UML to create the software workflows, developing documentation, Use Cases, and Requirements that would line up the software needs, we help the customers to discover the business layer. • Designed and maintained Web forms and Banners PHP Coded, implemented upgrades, patches, code releases, and database changes • Data exchange with third party using PHP5/XML • Used PHP, HTML and JavaScript webpage coding integrated with MySQL using Apache HTTP. • Database Design, using tools like workbench to create the model EER and the database specification, using normalization techniques, reaching 3NF form for databases. • Infrastructure preparation and Design, selecting the appropriate servers for deployments, and defining levels of deployment (usually four, working copies (trunk), test deployment (dev), pre-production (stable), and production (master)), with the help of source control tools like GIT (Github, Bit bucket, Beanstalkapp) and SVN (Beanstalkapp), additionally setting up and installing servers (CentOS, Mac OSX, Windows [IIS]), the most common it is installing by Terminal. • UI/UX Developing and design, using JavaScript and CSS3 techniques, with the help of frameworks (jQuery) • Front End Development, HTML5, HTML4 with responsive designs and adaptive for mobile. • Backend Development, generation of administration panels, and catalog administration. • Technology Advisor, given to the customer the most viable solution for his product or service, the benefits and downwards of each technology reviewed. • Software Engineering, using tools for coding, manuals and standards documents, using a progressive development (bottom-up), seeking for deliverables MVP (Most Viable Product), and the preparation for major versions. • Q&A Trough Requirements, Customer Histories, Use Cases & Wireframes • PHP with PSR-0, PSR-1, PSR-3, PSR-4 Coding Standard  Environment: PHP, SVN/Git (Source Control), MySQL, JavaScript, Python, PostgreSQL, Drupal, Objective-C, .NET (C#), Project Manager, HTML4/5, CSS 2/3.
