JAVA UI Developer
American Eagle - Pittsburgh, PA
American Eagle Outfitters is an American clothing and accessories retailer, headquartered in the Southside Works Neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. American eagle provides Omni channel shopping experience for consumers by providing features like reserve, trial and buy to provide seamless shopping experience.  Responsibilities: • Designed and Developed front-end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Bootstrap, Angular JS. • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS, HTML, XHTML, Bootstrap, React JS and AngularJS. • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JQuery in ongoing projects. • Achieved responsive web pages in creating website layout to fit different devices by using Bootstrap grid and thumbnail system. • Also responsible for Redesigning and maintaining existing web application utilizing HTML, CSS, JQuery and Angular JS. • Created interfaces to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular JS and JQuery. • Modified existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance. • Involved in Java, XML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, HTML/CSS, Java script, JQuery and REST APIs • Involved in J2EE designing which utilizesSpring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture, SpringMVC, Spring Annotations, Hibernate, JDBC and Tomcat Web server • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop feature, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. • Modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating JSON. • AngularJS was used as the development framework to build a single-page application • Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js • Integrated  back end code (Java) and developed  highly interactive AJAX based applications • React JS was used to build application that updates constantly over time. • Responsible for developing a client application API endpoint with Node.js • Replaced table based navigation system design with table less navigation using CSS and JavaScript. • Consumed Web Services(RESTFul) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers. • Created the applications by using Java and made enhancements of the projects for the Java application. • Used RESTFul web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP. • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery. • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers. • Used Spring MVC and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL to implement the persistence layer in Hibernate. • Designed applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards. • Interacted with Java consultants to create the web services that are to be consumed by HTML web pages • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Spring MVC, RESTFul, agile, Angular JS, Node.js, React Js  Dreamweaver, XML,   DOM, Maven, SQL, Oracle, Windows.
