Sr. Java/J2EE Develope
Liberty Mutual - Portsmouth, NH
Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application. • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and Spring templates • Used Spring Transactions in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level. • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate DAOs. • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with WebServices and Legacy Systems using REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks) • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JQuery to display the data on the client side. • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the debugging process • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application onto Weblogic Application Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process • Developed Object Model and UML design models for developing Use cases and created Sequence diagram, class diagram and active diagrams for application components and interfaces • Involved in developing XML compilers using XQuery. • Designed and developed a number of RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development within the United Federation of Teachers using Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, MySQL, DB2 and Maven • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration. • Used SVN for version control. Log4J was used to log both User Interface and Domain Level Messages. • Working with a servlet container e.g Tomcat, resin Enterprise Integration Platforms (ESB or EAI platforms) Practicing TDD using Junit, Easy Mock or equivalent frameworks Spring Batch and/or Spring Integration. • Designing the Use Case Diagrams, Class Model, Sequence diagrams, for SDLC process of the application using Microsoft Visio. • Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Procedure, Anonymous PL/SQL programs, Cursor management, Exception Handling in PL/SQL programs • Tuning complex database queries and joining the tables to improve the performance of the application • Implemented GUI pages by using JavaScript, HTML, JSP, CSS, and AJAX. • Developed EJS access layer and components using JPA/Hibernate frameworks for object persistence to Derby database for mock domain and in Oracle for real domains. • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller • Wrote SPA ( Single page web applications) using Restful web services plus AJAX and Angular JS. • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer • Used J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate during development. • Using Corticon Log Viewer Utility Tool for debugging the code when we get change request or fixes either in functional or code.  Environment: Java, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, JMS, XML, REST, JDBC, JAX-WS, JavaScript, AngularJS, NoSQl, UML, HTML, JNDI, JAXB, SVN, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere 8.5, Oracle 10g, Maven
