Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Intersog Software - Chicago, IL
Responsibilities: • Responsible for developing enhancements to the website. • Key role in gathering the business requirements of the enhancements. • Developed Restful Web services providing various service operations to meet the requirements. • Experience in SOAP based web services. • Developed server-side code for internal and external web applications. • Used SVN for configuration management and version control. • Involved in testing the application processes and debugging the issues related to the database side of the application. • Worked with HTML5 libraries to build dynamic web portal components. • Developed front end screens using JSP, JQUERY, ANGULARJS, HTML5, CSS, JAVASCRIPT. • Developed web application using AngularJS, Play framework to meet the business requirements and providing required functionality. • Worked with JDBC to connect the application with the database. • Involved in writing the efficient SQL statements, functions, Stored Procedures and change to the existing database structure for new enhancements. • Creation of the Java classes for the WSDL using JAX-WS and testing using SOAP UI. • Worked with bootstrap CSS to customize the portal views and devise detector logic to build the mobile views for the web application. • Worked with JavaScript's to provide necessary client side scripting / functionality. • Team Lead for offshore team while involved duties like training, assigning work, guidance and testing the work. • Worked with Play Framework. • Used JUnit for unit testing.  notifications. • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module. • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database • Working experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, JQuery, JMS and Oracle coherence. • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework. • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API • Developed application using Eclipse Ganymede for rapid development. • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server. • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies. • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, SonarQube for code quality inspection and Git for source code management. • Used Eclipse IDE for code Development along with GIT Hub for managing the code. • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose. • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application. • Used Servelets and JSPs for developing action classes and views. • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies. • Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA. • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable. • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component. • Client Services Rep for SEO company specializing in Web 2.0  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JQuery, AJAX, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript , Node.js,  Angular.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Oracle, CRUD(1), PL/ SQL, JDBC, coherence , MongoDB, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion(SVN), Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), SERVELET, MAVEN, ITEXT, GWT (Google Web Toolkit),  Jasper report, ILOG, Web 2.0, SOA,
