Java/J2EE Developer
EARNST &YOUNG, New Jersey
Description: It is an intranet application developed for employees within the company. The employees can access their own information and update the information on various types of insurance policies provided by the company. The employees can also process claims and authorize payments for the customers. It is developed with identity manager and self-provisioning in where users can do reset passwords and create accounts.  Responsibilities: ➢ Designed and developed features for J2EE-based business activity monitoring and operational dashboard engine, including the rules and alert engine, webapp components, recoverability, intelligent workflow features, internationalization, and upgradability. ➢ Developed presentation layer includes UI components, validations using HTML5, applying styles using CSS, used JQuery to make Ajax calls. ➢ Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules. ➢ Involved in design of Scheduling Application using the Activity, Data Flow, Class and Sequence UML diagrams ➢ Developed the Application Module using several design patterns like Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Façade, prototype and Composite View. ➢ Designed and coded JAXB API to interact with third party application for asynchronous loading and parsing of JMS XML messages ➢ Developed the necessary front end user interfaces in JSP's, HTML, Java Script, CSS and AngularJS that will be integrated using Spring MVC Framework. Developed Form Beans/ JavaBeans, Spring Controller Classes and configured with the corresponding view pages in spring-config.xml file. ➢ Implemented Rest based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using $HTTP services from angular JS modules. ➢ Implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files. ➢ Established efficient exception handling and logging using Spring AOP. ➢  Responsible for installation, performance design and configuration of SiteMinder policy server and agents in a SSO Environment. ➢ Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database. ➢ Designed Hibernate entities that map data base tables, implemented inheritance strategies using Hibernate inheritance strategy. ➢ Extensively used CA/DB2 tools to migrate database objects (CA RC/migrate), to monitor thread activity (Detector) , etc ➢ Implemented search functionality, filtering, pagination using Hibernate criteria Query interfaces. ➢ Developed test suite framework and regression tests for rules and alerts engine, recovery engine, object manipulation functionality, import/export engine and user-defined function handling using JUNIT ➢ Maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins. ➢ Developed the application on Web Sphere Application Server environment with RAD as development IDE. ➢ Used HP Quality center for defect tracking. ➢ UAT support and bug fixing.  Environment: J2EE , Springs , Ajax, Spring MVC, Spring Core, SOA, Hibernate 4.0, Rest web services, RAD 7.x, websphere,  HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 ,  SVN, Jquery, Mustache framework , AngularJS,  db2 (version 8), QC, JUnit, Maven, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Rational Rose.
