Sr.Java Developer
LIFE TECHNOLOGY - California
Responsibilities •    Developed overall basic design layout, objects colors and effect using HTML5, java script and CSS3.  •    Well versed with AngularJs directives at attribute, element and class level with HTML5 and CSS3 integration.  •    Analyzing the business requirements from the client and designing the Technical Specification for architect's review. •    Created the packages, stored procedures, functions using Oracle PL/SQL for data storage and business reports.  Accomplishments •    Facilitating SCRUM ceremonies like daily Standups, Sprint Planning, Sprint Demos and Sprint Retrospectives. •    Captured empirical data and updated SPRINT tasks in daily SCRUM to ensure the item pulled in SPRINT backlog is completed by the end of on-going SPRINT cycle. •    Designing the front end using JSP, JQuery, CSS and Html, XHTML as per the requirements that are provided. •    Imported the data from MySQL database to flat file and written SQL Loader scripts to load the flat file data into Oracle database. •    Conducted SCRUM meetings and updated Burndown chart with the progress of each SPRINT. •    Worked in Agile SDLC development model and was involved in analysis, development and testing phases. •    Since this is a small application, I have provided scripts to DBA for database creation. •    Creating HTML Web pages utilizing JavaScript and CSS •    Used Explain Plan for analyzing performance for database objects, tuning and optimizing the PL/SQL code. •    Written shell scripts for secure key generation between the 2 servers for Java to use Secure Copy Protocol through Application server to access images from different server. •    Involved in test case preparation along with business users. •    Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP. Used RESTful using JSON. •    Used Hibernate persistence framework on the backend over Oracle 10g and postgre database.  •    Unit testing in development environment and close interaction with system test and user acceptance team to complete technical and functional testing.  Skills Used Java, PL/ SQL and Oracle 10g & 11g Express    Struts 2.0, JSF, Hibernate4, Spring4, Angular JS, Bootstrap JS
