Java UI Developer
ADP LLC - Alpharetta, GA
Vantage HCM: Vantage HCM is a scalable Human Resource Management system. This system provides HR Management, Payroll Services, Talent Management, HCM analytics and Benefits administration all in one integrated system. It also has a time and attendance module used for tracking and overall workforce management, Vantage HCM is a cross platform app and can be accessed from mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets.  Responsibilities: • Extensive use of Rally tool for bugs tracking and implementing Agile and Kanban Methodologies in a systematic manner. • Developed UI screens for attendance module using Angular-JS, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and Javascript. • Developed angular controllers, services and used different modules for server communication. • Configured routing and use angular UI components such as grid, accordion, alerts, buttons, date picker etc.. • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma. • Developed Rest API using Node-JS using various modules in node like express, sequelize, underscore, body-parser etc. • Created various Apache Camel routes to route the messages to various end points like Http, JMS and Java components. • Developed Camel processors for message enrichment, error handling and involved in creating backend data access layer using Spring and Mybatis. • Created Mybatis mapping XML's to map sql resultset to java objects and integrated spring and mybatis in the application. • Developed a batch job to process the leavers information using Spring batch and Spring scheduling. • Developed authentication and access control services for the application using Spring security and Spring LDAP. • Developing new REST based Web services and modifying existing web services, used to integrate the legacy enterprise system with Vantage HCM application. • Working with Quality assurance group to resolve defects/bugs. • Providing assistance to testing team to create test cases and test scenarios. • Deploying fixes and updates using IBM WebSphere application server • Involved in developing automated unit test cases using Selenium and cucumber. • Participated in builds and deployments using Maven and continuous integration using Jenkins.  Environment: Java 1.8, JMS, JNDI, HTML 5, CSS 3, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, Spring 4, Jersey, Mybatis, Node-JS, LDAP, IBM MQ Series, CSS, Web Sphere 8, Maven, GIT, Oracle 11g, AJAX, Eclipse, Web storm, Junit, Jasmine, JavaScript, VSS, Jenkins, Maven.
