Sr. Java Developer
Blue Cross Blue Shield Flowed - MS
Responsibilities: • Developed Session Beans for necessary transactions like fetching the data required, updating the respondent information. • Worked on publishing and testing the web services (JAX-WS) and interacting with the internal teams who consumed the web services. • Responsible for developing DAO layer using Spring MVC and configuration XML's for IBatis. • Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (WSDL) • Used JSF to build application to create a page structure by arraigning JSF components in tree. • Designed and developed the business logic layer and data access layer using different kinds of Data Access Objects (Dao's) . Used spring and Hibernate at persistence layer (DAO) • Produced and consumed both SOAP and RESTful Web Services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS. Used SOAP UI for testing Web Services. • Involved in publishing the Web Services to help users interacting with Web Services. • Involved in the migration of independent parts of the system to use persistence technology such as JDBC. • Wrote database queries using SQL and PL/SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracle database. • Developed Controller Servlets and Used Java Script for client validations. • Created action classes in Struts and developing manager's classes using Hibernate. • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture. • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Framework. • Designed and implemented Spring Framework based RESTful web services. • Worked on a team of developers that designed, developed, and successfully shipped a Java web service for Dropdowns and required data. • Consumed Rest Web Services for transferring data between different applications. • Experienced with WSDL. • Implemented Exception handling Framework using spring. • Developed Servlets to process the requests, transfer the control according to the request to corresponding Session Beans, JSP pages. • Developed the business logic layer and data access layer using Data Access Objects (DAO's) • Data Access programming using IBATIS --ORM using JDBC to access the database. • Involved in development of domain layer using session and entity beans. • Used Spring Core Container module to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual code for injecting the Dependencies into the Objects. • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations of data. • Wrote and consumed Web Services using WSDL and published it on Tomcat Server. • Used RAD 9 as the IDE for the project. • Involved in writing JUnit Test Cases. • Used Log4j logging framework to debug the code. • Used RTC as version controlling tool. • Using the UML methodology, developed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the dynamic view of the system developed in Visual Paradigm. • Identifying and developing test cases and test scripts to perform load tests for performance and regression testing. Environment: Java 7.0, JSP, Servlets, AngularJS, Spring, Eclipse, IBatis, XML, HTML, CSS, CVS, JavaScript, Tomcat 7.0, SQL Server 2008, JUnit, Rest Web Services, JSON, JAX-WS, SAX, DOM and Windows Environment.
