Senior Java Developer
American Family Insurance - Madison, WI
Description: The protegrity solution offers the ability to tokenize the data and the current planned implementation is only for the CDH system. • Data Protection Service - The web-service on-top of Protegrity that is used to tokenize, mask, and un-protect data. • Sensitive customer information will be disguised within the CDH system where a specific set of information would be replaced with disguised information • e.g.: SSN of […] would be replaced with ABC-DE-6789 once protegrity returns this information via the web service call.  The primary fields that are included at this time are: • Social Security Number • Drivers License Number • FEIN, Tax payer ID, State ID Number • Date of Birth • Email Address  Responsibilities: • Gathering the requirements from the business and performing the requirement analysis. • Developed the project using Agile methodologies and Test Driven Development. • Prepared the LLD (Low Level Design) document and DDD (Detailed Design Document) document. • Developed the project based on the Spring framework. • Used Java Service Integration Framework SIF to interact with Informatica MDM Hub. • Implemented the Informatica MDM BATCH jobs to tokenize the existing data. • Implementing the Data Access object to connect the database through Spring JDBC template. • Involved in development of Oracle tables, stored procedures, and functions. • Conducted the performance testing using the JProbe tool to identify the memory leaks, unused and useless java objects. • Daily and Weekly status/progress to the IT manager. • Code written has been qualified through various code quality tools like qa4j, PMD, find bugs etc. • Used Log4j for logging and debugging. • Extensively used MyEclipse IDE while writing code & used GIT for version control. • Performed the unit testing, integration testing and system testing of the applications. • Coordinate with the QA team for the QA testing of the applications and defect fixes. • Used Maven build plugin to build the software packages. • Deployed the packages in the QA and QP regions using Harvest build. • Deployed application in JBoss 6.2 Server  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring, SIF, MDM 9.7, Log4j, MyEclipse IDE, GIT, Maven, PMD, Find Bugs, JProbe, Oracle, JBoss Server 6.2
