Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Bridgestone - Aiken, SC
Bridgestone Corporation, the world's largest tire and Rubber Company. BSAM and its subsidiaries develop, manufacture and market a wide range of Bridgestone, Firestone and associate brand tires to address the needs of a broad range of customers. Dealer Information System is a web application for dealer tracking and maintaining the dealer information. The system provides functionality to search, add, view and edit dealer information, organize sale events, track the dealer records, documents and communication.  Responsibilities: • Involved in the Analysis, Design, Coding and testing of user requirements in different sprints. • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment. • Coordinating with the business and functional teams to get clarity on the requirement for analysis. • Working on the development work as well as support for previous releases. • Involved in Spring IOC and Spring AOP framework implementation. • Developing the code through different layers presentations layer using Struts2, Business Layer using Spring IOC, Service Layer using Hibernate ORM framework. • Troubleshooting of application related issues by analyzing log files created in Linux/Unix environment. • Resolved many challenging tasks while migrating by taking care of the sessions and creating stubs as per new environment etc. • Worked on Web Services using java API for XML Services(JAX-WS) and build, deploying Restful Web APIs Services • Implemented several new features by calling new Web services which were provided. • Tested web services on SOAP UI and SOAP Sonar. • Worked on ACH Credit project to shut down OMNI and make file transfers with SFTP while processing batch job. • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML 4.0/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON • Worked web UI  technologies Angular JS, JQuery, Java Script, HTML5, Ajax,  and CSS. • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using Java Script and JQUERY. • Developed domain objects using Hibernate and the respective configuration in xml files. • Used IBM RAD for development and WebSphere Application Server for deployment. • Involved in testing using JUNIT. • Involved in fixing various defects assigned on the Jira. • Used log4j for logging. • Developed the application using SCRUM agile methodology. • Involved in evaluating the code quality using PMD tool. • Used SVN as version management.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE , JSP, Web Services, ESB, SOAP, REST, SOA, Hibernate, Spring, JAXB, JNDI, JAXB, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Java Beans, Soap UI tool, JUnit, Log4j 1.2, Struts2, Ant, Maven 2.2.1 Oracle10g, Rapid SQL, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, SAX, DOM, SQL, Java script, Ajax, UML, Eclipse, Web Logic 10.3, Unix.
