Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
New York State - Albany, NY
Project Description:This project (QA Modernization Project), is a web application used by Division of Quality Improvement (DQI) section of Office for People with Developmental Disabilities (OPWDD) . The Division of Quality Improvement (DQI) has requested that the Quality Assurance (QA) application be replaced with a new web application. It must include all of the functionality in the existing system as well as all protocols and standalone databases, paperless surveys, letters and reports and interfaces with other applications.  Responsibilities: • Involved in a development of new application, enhancement and Maintenance (including production support) of existing applications for the New York State project. • Involved in the entire SDLC fromrequirement analysis, design, development, maintenance and support of the applications. • Worked on various Java standard design patterns such as Singleton Patterns, Factory, Abstract Factory, Session Façade and Model View Controller (MVC) • Developed web based application using JSF framework and Primafaces. • Worked on front developing using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS. • Used JavaScript for client side validations. • Worked onAJAX for communicating with the server side without a page refresh or reload. • Worked on CSS to manage styles on web pages. • Involved in design and development of application inJava Persistence API (JPA) for interacting with relational database. • Developed EJB Session Beans for application Business logic. • Generated report using JMS API for asynchronous communication in PDF and Excel formats. • Developed Web services using JAXB, JAX-WS, REST and JSON APIs. • Used Event basedInter Portlet communication (IPC) for communication between different IBM portlets. • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle 11g database. • Deployed portal applications on IBM Portal server 8.5 and IBM Application Server 7.0. • UsedRational Application Developer version 9IDEfor easier development experience and to maintain the coding standards. • Used SVN for version control. • Used HP Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) - Quality Center Edition for managing defects per application. • Developed multiple bat jobs and shell scripts for automating standalone applications. • Used Mockito and JUnit for unit testing. • Used Maven as the build tool for the application. • Used Jenkins for building and deploying the applications. • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files. • Involved in code review and project audits for other project teams to ensure coding standard across the organization. • Created Project Release Management document for moving the project to higher environments.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, AJAX, JPA, JMS, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSP, JSON, JAXB, JAX_WS, REST, EJB, CSS, MVC, JDBC, Oracle 10g, log4j, XML, MQSeries, WebSphere, AP ALM, JUnit, Mockito, Subversion, Maven, RAD, Jenkins.
