Java Developer
Tribune Company - Chicago, IL
Project: Next Generation User Experience (NGUX)  Project Description: Tribune Publishing Company is an American newspaper and print media publishing company based in Chicago, Illinois. The NGUX project is a major redesign of Turbine-based web and mobile sites to give them responsive layout and a slew of new features for customers. It manages the interactive operations of major daily newspapers such as the Chicago Tribune and Los Angeles Times and their associated websites.  The development tasks handled by this project includes Design and development of backend system to support data handling for all news portals and upgrading the existing system to make it portable across multiple mobile and tablet PC.  Responsibilities: • Involved in designing and implementing the pages for the NGUX site. • Worked on backend and frontend, improved site user experience and functionalities significantly. • Used Struts and Hibernate to develop the CMS module • Implemented Content Management System for news producer to manage news items. • Implemented RESTFul web service for use in different modules. Used Jersey to implement Restful web services in a Java servlet container. • Implemented new batch processes to handle user subscriptions and transactions. • Designed and implemented the presentation layer using JSP, Angular JS, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface. • Participated in code review to ensure the quality of work. • Involved in replacing the site search from Fast to Elastic search for all the NGUX sites. • Wrote custom search templates and index templates for Elastic search. • Planning and executing Integration, Functional and Regression testing of new code • Wrote shell scripts for application provisioning of CentOS system. • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. • Used Agile methodology throughout the software development lifecycle (SDLC) • Involved in running weekly builds to migrate new code to production environments • Addressed high priority bugs impacting UI/revenue on a daily basis under tight timeframes • Worked closely in a team environment and effectively communicated with developers and clients Environment: Core Java, JDK 1.7, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, RESTful, Jersey, JSON, AngularJS, Elastic Search, Kibana, Logstash, memcache, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, Apache Cassandra, Apache Tomcat 7.0.42, Jenkins, Log4j, JUnit and UNIX.
