Senior Java/J2EE, Developer
Otsuka US - Princeton, NJ
Loss of Efficacy - Beehive Otsuka is a pharmaceutical company, having global presence; in US named as Otsuka America Pharmaceutical Inc. Otsuka has many pharmacy products. Loss of Efficacy is an application which captures the customer complain information and identify the lot number of the drug from which the drug was sold to the customer, to evaluate the potential lot number Manufacturing, Sales and Inventory information is captured and algorithms are run over the data to evaluate the potential lot number.  Responsibilities • Designed and developed Machine learning models iteratively which are used for evaluating potential lot number. • Build the requirements based on the client needs; and did technical assessment for the project. • Designed the project in terms of back end, user interface and machine learning logic. • Coordinate with offshore team to develop the project as per the requirements • Written the programs using Java, Spring, Hibernate, XML, JSON, Jquery, JSP, HTML. • Designed the database for the application, optimized the design • Addressed the Business problem using J2EE programs and algorithm which are related to data intense application. • Prepare Low Level Design Document for all the development with minor and major changes. • Prepare High Level Design Document to give the overall picture of system integration • Prepare Design and Development plan for the project • Prepare Functional Risk assessment document • Prepare Development plan document, modularizing the project for developing the project independently. • Prepare OTS (Off the shelf) document which describes the components to be used in the project. • Prepare Unit test document for each release and clearly indicate the steps followed while unit testing with different scenarios and captured. • Reviewed code written band suggested improvements. • Written spring and hibernate programs for the user interface. Environment Core Java 6, , Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, XML, XSLT, UML, Multi-threading, Servlets, Junit , Elastic Search, HP ALM, Service now, JSP, Java Script, JSON, Apache Log 4j, Wildfly.
