SENIOR JAVA PROGRAMMER
AMERICAN COLLEGE OF SURGEONS - Chicago, IL
Jasdeep delivers software solutions with speed and quality." Created user information solutions by developing, implementing, and maintaining Java-based components and interfaces. Defined site objectives by analyzing user requirements, envisioning system features, and functionality. Set expectations and features priorities throughout the development lifecycle, determining design methodologies and tool sets. Completed programming using languages and software products. Designed and conducted tests to ensure smooth workflow. • Saved the company $500K+ by writing the in-house web reports used by 400+ Hospitals, including Mayo Clinic and Northwestern Hospital. • Designed REST Web Services using Java. ✓ Developed the software application to download data from CRM systems and integrate into existing portals. ✓ Completed business gathering, design, development, and coding of the application. ✓ Managed the full SDLC project lifecycle for the Agiloft CRM data API. • Developed the front-end design and Java application for the web reports. • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application. • Helped in a new, centralized resource portal for documentation, including business gathering and Java coded business rules. • Ensured proper documentation of all processes for repeatability. • Assisted with changing servers and helped to create the new Tomcat 7 server. ✓ Configured and tested the server for speed, performance, and settings. • Mentored Junior-level Developers, assisting them with troubleshooting and understanding company/departmental standards. • Assisted other departments with Java front-end issues and troubleshooting. • Deployed applications into a custom environment for testing before placing into production. ✓ Performed UAT, QA, stress tests, and unit tests to ensure each application was working well. • Utilized Source Control SVN daily to track all codes used throughout organizational history. • Tracked projects and identified issues using Jira. • Created an XML file with government specifications, converted hospital data files into XML files, and uploaded onto the government website CMS.gov.
