Net Developer/UI Developer
Suntrust Bank - Richmond, VA
Description: eLoans is meant to track the loans. Loans are treated as products and to each customer bank can sell different combination of products. This combination of products is known as deals. This application tracks all the Deals and products information. It has well defined business and this project is having rich interface using Ajax controls. Responsibilities: • Analyzed and participated in requirements gathering and design document. • Followed Agile Methodologies and Test Driven Development. • Created Class diagrams using UML as part of design documentation. • Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify the business requirements and working with QA Team as part of Bug life cycle. • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller. • Designing screens (aspx, ascx and master pages) using Visual Studio .NET 2008/2010 and Creating Style Sheets for formatting the WebPages based on the business requirements and functional requirements document. • Used JavaScript to implement the client side business logic and validations. • Used HTML, CSS, Telerik controls, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS and jQuery to improve look and feel of the ASP.NET 4.5 web page. • Used different state management techniques (HiddenFields, ViewState, Session, query string, etc.) to maintain the state between the pages. • Used Data Access and logging application blocks. • Entity Framework (EF) and ADO .NET used to establish the connection with SQL server. • Entity Framework (EF) code first used to create some of the database. • Extensively involved in .Net Exception Handling Management, Debugging and Tracing of Application. • Created and used Web User Controls for reusability. • Used LINQ for database transactions. • Used SOAP to implement Web Services and consumed and published XML web services in the application. • Updated XML documents with financial information. • Created and deployed Web Services using C#, SOAP, XML for Pulling Customer Service Records. • Implementation of client side Validate form inputs, Customize selections, Confirmation using JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax. • Involved in the Data modeling and development of Data warehouse in Oracle, T-SQL & SQL Server. • Used different bindings for WCF service to support different protocols. • Extensively used AJAX controls like collapsible panels, tab controls, update panel etc. • Extensively worked on stored procedures, triggers, functions, views, temporary tables and table variables. • Generated Reports using SSRS and integrated with web pages. • Designed and created data mining models using SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS). • Worked with test team and fixed the issues as part of the bug life cycle. • Implemented Unit testing using NUnit. • Used Visual Source Safe as version control and document management. Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2008, .Net Framework 4.5, ASP.NET, VB6.0, C#, WCF, Silverlight, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Telerik controls, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery ADO.Net, Entity Framework (EF), Web Services, MVC, LINQ, Oracle, SQL server 2008, T-SQL, SSRS, XML, NUnit, Agile Methodologies
