Java Developer
Express Tokenization - Columbus, OH
OH Project: Express Tokenization  Express EComm/IT team handle the Express.com and various POS(Point-of-sale) operations. Express Tokenisation primarily focuses on making the payment authorizations on-line using a token rather than encrypted or clear card.  Tokenization makes a secured calls to AJB and First Data to complete the transactions. As part of this task the orders are processed even in the case of off-line scenarios(Network issues, Bank connectivity, Time outs, MAC failures). Developed Batch processors to convert all the card numbers in the system to tokens.  As part of POS, worked on a Verifone device to load the card details onto the site and process the order.  Responsibilities: • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective. • Used ATG Web Commerce for designing and developing personalized features on e-commerce site. • Involved in analysis design, development and implementation of various e-commerce application web applications using Java, J2ee Websphere, JBoss and ATG Dynamo technologies spanning the entire Software Development Life Cycle. • Involved in ATG dynamo development on Windows based workstations • Designed and developed payment services which route authorizations through tokens(AJB payment services). • Worked on differenct payment services like Major credit cards, Gift Cards, Promotional Credit cards(Express credit Cards). • Scripted batch processors which decrypt all the credit cards from the system send it across to First data for conversion to tokens. Then Update the encrypted data with tokens. • Worked on paypal integration to be compatible with the tokenization. • Performed Code Reviews and mentoring, involved in triaging and fixing the issues. • Developed validation component in combination of java script and XML validation rules, developed common components to support the user interface Validation. • Ability to work well independently or in a team environment. Possess excellent analytical and troubleshooting skills, proactive in solving problems. • Developed data access components using JDBC, DAOs, and Beans for data manipulation. • Used Ant as build and configuration tool. • Used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on JBoss server. • Developed test cases and performed testing using JUnit. • Monitored the error logs using log4j and fixed the problems. • Used GIT as version control. • Involved in testing and fixing the bugs and also reviewed the code.  Environment: ATG, Eclipse,  JBOSS, Web Services, J2EE, SQL Developer, Ant, JUNIT, JSP, Servlets, GIT, Tortoise SVN, JDBC, MQ, Verifone terminal.
