Sr Java Developer
Agility Network Services, Inc - Chicago, IL
Project Description: Broker Portal is a web application that offers critical deal-making information to the point-of-sale in real-time so that the broker network can quickly say "YES" to borrowers with confidence and accuracy at the point-of-sale on the first time. The Broker Portal works in conjunction with other applications to instantly deliver product eligibility, up-to-date products & pricing, and automated underwriting approvals to the point-of-sale.  Responsibilities: • Followed agile methodology in delivering the work. • Collaborated on design specification reviews together with Business Analysts. • Involved in gathering business requirement and translated into high level design of the application. • Used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on TOMCAT server. • Developed the business layer using spring boot. • Implemented code for Web services using Restful. • Implemented MyBatis to interact with Oracle 11gdatabase. • Implemented procedures, packages, triggers, and different Joins to retrieve the data base using PL/SQL, SQL scripts. • Used Maven for build creation and to push onto various environments. • Used JUnit for extensive functional and unit testing code. • Used SVN version controlling to maintain versions.. • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for application development. • Involved in all phases of software application i.e Analysis, Design, Planning, Coding, Testing, Use case documents, high level and detailed design documents. • Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern. • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report. • Design, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user. • Created frontend screens using GWT framework • Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational ClearQuest and JIRA. • Enhanced and created new Jasper Reports according to the requirements. • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators. • Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies. • Develop SOA (SAAS), service documents for Enterprise Applications. • Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS. • IBM Websphere hosting and Apache Tomcat webserver integration - both on Windows and AIX platform. • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script. • Development for both backend and front end applications. Extensive Programming by using PHP. • Wrote SQL queries of differing complexities for the application. Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored procedures, User Functions using PL/SQL, SQL Developer.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pagesstandard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa.
