Salesforce Developer
American Advisors Group
• Specialized in custom Visualforce design, building systems capable of being analyzed, and statistics/analysis with python. • Developed and designed a scripting service in Visualforce/Apex that would alter the user process depending on lead information, determine which loan officer group should be called, user tracking, and enable lead distribution via a system depending on lead source and disposition. (Salesforce) • Developed and designed an internal dialer system capable of A/B testing using a RESTful web service to receive dispositions to control lead flow or call back logic. • Developed and designed a user interface with Visualforce/Apex that allowed for quicker and accurate data entry for temps for our direct mail campaign. (Salesforce) • Developed and designed an RSVP system that would call leads at a specific time, or at a predetermined time based on the script disposition using a scheduled/batch process running in 15 minute intervals. • Developed a trigger handler system to prevent duplicate observations from workflows. (Salesforce) • Determine the cost per lead saturation curves for the major lead sources using incomplete gamma approximations over daily and weekly sums using MCMC methods and n-poly approximations. (Python) • Determined the proportion of paid content leads that were generated from television using missing variable regression and seasonality correction. Analysis was used as an example of advanced analytics for an investors meeting. (Python) • Determined the relationship between thirty minute cost per leads and twenty four hour cost per leads to identify potential bidding characteristics for television spots. (Python) • Queried information from Salesforce tables and history tables for lead flow analysis to aid design and validate system processes. (Python) • Located profitable DMA regions using external databases coupled with internal client information as a means to locate potential sports teams to advertise with. (Excel)
