Java/ J2EE Developer
Barclays - New York, NY
RESPONSIBILITIES: • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu)  section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT. • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate. • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations. • Implemented ORM mapping and Dependency Injection in a Spring, Hibernate framework. • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using eAgent frame work JSPs, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, iFrame and JavaScript. • AJAX forms are created for update operations • Used Framework., JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, EJB, Java Scripts and Weblogic • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend. • Developed browser based JavaScript application for mobile and desktop using Angular and Custom SASS solution •  Designed and Developed User Interactive Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, and AJAX. • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling • Testing the web services using SoapUI user can do crud operation returning into JSON • Created db tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL • Created complex SQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers. • Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, AWS, Oracle, SOA, WebSphere, TOAD, HTML 5, CSS, XML, Angular Js, Mongo DB, TOAD, SVN, Node Js, ESB, Jenkins, SOAP, Log4J, Junit • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and testified the services using REST APIs • Engaged with Eclipse for visually designing, constructing, testing and deploying J2EE application and web services. • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic. • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes • Transformed the QA into a fast -paced agile team and drove daily stand up scrum meeting. • Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML. • Designed and developed a web-based test client using Spring, Struts, JSP, Tag Libraries, Java Script, HTML and XML to test different parts of the application. • Developed ANT scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE, WebSphere Studio Application Devloper (WSAD), Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Servelet, MAVEN applications.Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server. • Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable. • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules. • Designed and currently developing 3 Tier Web 2.0 based price management system using GWT, Grails and MySql. Used and using Talend Open Studio to load data into the new system from the legacy data formats. • Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions using SOA(Service Oriented Architecture), web services, DODAF (Department of Defense Architecture Framework), and segment architecture.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO , SenchaExtJs , Javascript, CSS, Ajax, HTML5, DB2, Crud, Pl/ SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Coherence, Node.js, Git, Websphere Portal, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, Javaserver pages standard tag library (JSTL), Github, MongoDB, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle Enterprise Content Management (Oracle ECM ), GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, WEB 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP.
