RF Hardware Software/Systems Engineer
LS Research, LLC - Cambridge, MA
• Designed a Wi-Fi controlled light dimmer control board using the Qualcomm AR4100P Wi-Fi SIP and STM32L151RC microcontroller. The board generated control signals for leading & trailing-edge phase cutting of mains to dim up to 1kW of either inductive or capacitive light loads. Tuned a capacitive touch user interface to the enclosure, and integrated it with LEDs feedback. Assisted in designing a secondary board that provided an isolated power supply and diming circuitry. • Assisted with ICD, power supply design, and schematic capture of a modular software defined radio (SDR). • Performed NFC consulting to determine optimal placement and tuning of antenna on metal housing. Utilized the PN532 NFC controller and Pulse W3579 ferrite backed antenna to read standard MIFARE 1k cards. • Primary developer of a re-usable C'99 modular based framework. The framework can be used across multiple RTOS platforms, decreasing design time and providing a common platform for the engineering team. • Led a co-development effort with customer and third-party companies to design a wearable device with fitness and personal security capabilities. The wearable used a STM32L4 ARM Cortex-M4 µC and the TI CC2640 BLE SoC. Main development tasks included system architecture, communications (inter-process and inter-device), display GUI & drivers, watchdog management, and an inter-device error logging infrastructure. • Led a co-development effort with customer to design an arrhythmia monitoring system. The system consisted of a BLE wearable device, a BLE-to-Cellular gateway, and remote server. Implemented BLE firmware on the TI CC2541 BLE SoC (8051 core). Development efforts included custom services, serial protocol development, application logic, and driver development. Implemented both BLE Peripheral & Central roles. Created MATLAB simulations to determining the communication intervals and protocol necessary to meet a very tight power budget while having minimum latency and optimal throughput. • Aided in performing risk assessment, milestone tracking, project effort quotes, and project resource allocation. • Assisted with process definition, improvement, and roll-out. Acted as Primary customer technical contact, translated marketing level requirements to testable engineering level requirements. Authored and executed hardware and software test plans to verify performance and functional requirements. Acted as project engineer to be the primary technical interface to customers, layout development plans, and coordinate with project management.
