Python Product Engineer
Geoprocessing Team - Redlands, CA
Build and ship quality software by working effectively with members of the Geoprocessing team and members from other software teams in an agile, highly interactive, and creative environment. •   Develop and test the Create Buffers, Extract Data, Dissolve Boundaries, Merge Layers, Overlay Layers, and Field Calculator tools for the Spatial Analysis Services on ArcGIS Online. •   Responsible for testing, documenting, and introducing new functionality for the Select Layer by Location, Select Layer by Attribute, and Apply Symbology from Layer tools in the Layers and Table Views toolset in the Data Management toolbox as an ArcGIS geoprocessing tool owner. •   Design, build, and maintain a harness framework for testing Spatial Analysis Services on ArcGIS Online using JSON input parameters and Python unittest framework to integrate with the existing geoprocessing QA testing framework automated runs. •   Write unit tests using the Python unittest framework for testing script tools created in Python, testing newly created methods for working with arcpy geometry, and testing geoprocessing tools that do not require the advanced configurations used in the geoprocessing QA testing framework. •   Create automated functional and sanity tests for geoprocessing tools in the geoprocessing QA testing framework. •   Promote the use of Python across the ArcGIS platform and share and distribute workflows and projects in the form of sample scripts, snippets, and blog articles. •   Conduct technical interviews of prospective Product Engineers for the Geoprocessing team both on the phone and in person during on-site visits. •   Present specialized product information during technical workshops and demonstrations conducted at the Esri User Conference and Esri Developer Summit as a subject matter expert in using Python for analysis and using Python in the ArcGIS geoprocessing framework.  •   Interact with Core Developers on the Geoprocessing team in order to address and prioritize software bugs in a timely manner and verify that the fixes do not affect the stability or functionality of other portions of the software. •   Collaborate with members from other teams in order to build custom Python scripts, script tools, and Python toolboxes based on specifications required to accomplish essential tasks. •   Demonstrate to Geoprocessing team members and members from other software teams how to build custom tools and deploy the tools as Python modules using the Python Distribution Utilities (Disutils) in order for them to be available to users in the ArcGIS system toolboxes. •   Write help documentation for new arcpy geometry methods and new geoprocessing tools, while maintaining the existing documentation for arcpy geometry methods and geoprocessing tools under my responsibility.
