Java/JEE (J2EE)/ UI Developer
Six Stars of New York INC
Project Description: Six Stars of New York Inc. and HTP Inc. and are car and limousine Service Company providing services over 90 4-5 stars luxury hotels in Manhattan. Designed and developed modern web application for online presence. Developed a Web-based reservation system and integrated internal system. The Reservation system was designed to provide easy access for hotels to book the services as well as random customer to book services through online reservation system. Reservation system has capability to search, create profile and book the services online in real time.  Responsibilities: * Actively involved in Analysis, Detail Design, Development, Integration Testing and User Acceptance Testing. * Configured the Spring framework for entire business logic layer with XML based bean configuration. * Implemented Spring MVC Framework architecture, developed controller classes, customer interceptor and other configuration files like web.xml. * Used Java Mail to send confirmation to customer who booked services through online reservation system. * Used JMS to record online credit card transaction. * Used Maven as a build and dependency management tool for the web application. * Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, and Bootstrap. * Developed Rich User Interface using Angular JS JavaScript framework for providing richer user interface and facilitate asynchronous request invocations using AJAX. * Data is exchanged in JSON format, which helps in interact with other software applications. * Extensively involved in database designing work with MySQL Database * Designed and developed DAO design pattern combined with Hibernate ORM framework to interact with MySQL database to perform CRUD operations. * Wrote Hibernate Query Language (HQL) queries and map POJO's to specific database tables with XML configuration files and Annotations. * Developed REST based Webservices to perform various profile updates and to fetch various transactional data to be displayed in JSON format to JSP's. * Coding, testing and deploying the web application using Glassfish Application Server. * Wrote and perform unit tests for the implemented bean code using JUnit. * Used SVN as source control tool to manage different versions. * Used Log4j to capture the log information that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Spring Framework, DAO, Hibernate 3.0, Web Sphere SQL, Java Parser for XML (SAX), REST, Jersey, JNDI, Java Script, JUnit, Log4j, AJAX, Windows7, Linux.
