Java Developer
TRADE Financial - Alpharetta, GA
Responsibilities: ➢ Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Adobe Flex. ➢ Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables ➢ Coded Java backend, JSP, Struts, JavaScript. ➢ Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX. ➢ Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting. ➢ Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY. ➢ Used JavaScript for developing UIComponents like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations. ➢ Create stored procedures, sequences, tables, indexes, triggers, views on Oracle DB. ➢ Developed the CRUD API for the POSEngine using Restful Web services. ➢ Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process. ➢ Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE. ➢ Spring Framework has been extensively used in all layers of the application including UI, backend and integration. Dao's were implemented using Hibernate. Developed Web Services using SOAP, RESTand Apache CXF while integrating with the license server to validate the licenses. ➢ In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API ➢ Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications. ➢ Ensured Agile, JDE & Oracle Databases are in sync. Create & distribute weekly Reports and followed up on Change Activity; managed released documents and maintain server database. ➢ Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML ➢ Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. ➢ Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application. ➢ Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance ➢ Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators. ➢ Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions usingSOA (Service Oriented Architecture), web services. Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Strut, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, JavaScript, Oracle, CRUDE, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, WebLogic, JUnit, Agile UML, JSPs, JSTL, Servlets, Maven, , ILOG, Web, SOA.
