UX/UI Developer/Prototype Developer
CVS Caremark - Florham Park, NJ
Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and jQuery. ● Used jQuery UI for dialogs, tabs, date picker, model pop up's and advanced components to implement UI model. ● HTML5 and CSS3 code optimization and testing against W3C validations and for the cross browser compatibility. ● Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS ● Used Adobe photoshop to create custom logos. ● Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for the website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript. ● Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using JQuery framework. ● Used JQuery DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI. ● Worked with remote teams to finalize requirements and complete the campaigns. ● Hand coded user experiences for cvs.com, cvscaremark.com and silverscript.com. ● Worked for backward compatibility to support browsers like IE6, IE7, IE8. ● Generalized code for various requirements. ● Used Software MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax-based applications, NoSQL databases: Redis, MongoDB, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.js, Backbone.js or Angular.JS ● Leveraged media queries capabilities in CSS3 to allow the application to be rendering to different viewport of different mobile devices and browsers. ● Worked with Mobile campaigns, which work both on IOS and Android. ● Integrated using REST, SOAP API's. ● Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment. ● Worked with GIT and Subversion to manage source code. ● Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server. ● Worked on NoSQL databases: Redis, MongoDB. ● Created liquid layouts, which work both on mobile and desktop. ● Created and worked with event centric light boxes and banners. ● Developed several full life cycle application development of front-end widgets (date picker, prescription refill, and insurance finder) for the CVS Caremark brand. ● Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma, along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA. ● Used Basecamp tool to work together with team members ● Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies. ● Created single (HTML & inline CSS3) pages multi (desktop and mobile) client ad. ● Provided technical assistance for development and maintenance of web pages. ● Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, deployment and integration. ● Worked on re-designing CVS Caremark home page. ● URL: https://www.caremark.com ● Worked on creating a responsive UI design of webpage for CVS specialty  Environment: jQuery, HTML5, XHTML, CSS2/3, Ecommerce, Monetate, AngularJS, BrowserStack, React.js, GIT, Jasmine.  URL: https://marketer.monetate.net/control/preview/1062/ATG0H9M0F688N05Q1VM6TEN699RXSLUO/homepage-redesign-version-2-unregistered-users-25
