Sr. Java Developer
Barclays - New York, NY
Responsibilities: ❖ Worked on a multi-tier web based environment using J2EE technologies: JSP, EJB and Java Servlets. ❖ Experience using various Java, J2EE and open source frameworks - Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Java Mail, Apache CXF, REST, and XML. ❖ Created hibernate mapping files for java classes using table per class hierarchy strategy. ❖ Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions. ❖ Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML. ❖ Involved in Analysis, Design and coding sessions of the Project, which is based on ❖ Struts and JSF MVC Architecture. ❖ Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and deploy the application. ❖ Worked with the Hibernate framework to interact with the database. ❖ Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery. ❖ Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular.js framework. ❖ Involved actively in designing web page using HTML, Backbone, AnjularJS, JQuery, Javascript, Bootsrap and CSS. ❖ Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and CustomTag Libraries, JS, CSS, JQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application. ❖ Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design. ❖ Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design. ❖ Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data ❖ Developed and deployed EJBs, Servlets and JSPs on IBM Websphere Server. ❖ Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the web component of the application. ❖ Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache. ❖ Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control. ❖ Designed, automated and lead Enterprise level high volume Java and WebLogic upgrades and migration effort. ❖ Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Git. ❖ Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML. ❖ Template development for a Java based search platform using JSP/JSTL. ❖ Develop the web application using Spring, JSP, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript and implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like Spring, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object). ❖ Implemented and customized Returns web services using JAX-WS with EJB. ❖ Implemented applications with Scala along with Akka and Play framework. ❖ Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Developed complex SQL queries for reports. ❖ Used SOAP protocol, JAX-WS and Apache CXF in development of web services. ❖ Using Web Logic Application Server as an application server and Eclipse as IDE. ❖ Implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies. ❖ Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic. ❖ Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies. ❖ Provides support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA. ❖ Extensively used the BAL constructs to handle collections in ILOG. Worked with large data sets in ILOG.  Technologies: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSF, ANT, Hibernate, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Coherence, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), JUnit, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS3, Ajax, HTML5, Oracle, CRUD, SQL, EJB, Scala, Agile, UML, PL/ SQL, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Servlet, Maven, Itext, Jira, Web 2.0, SOA, Jasper Report, ILOG.  Sr. Java Developer AT & T, New York, NY Duration: Sep 2012 - Feb 2014  Responsibilities: ❖ Deployed J2EE components (EJB, Servlets) in WebLogic Application server. ❖ Used Angular JS, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, SOA, UNIX, JBPM, Restful and JavaScript framework for creating Dynamic Reach Design Layout with JSP. ❖ Implemented necessary classes and built custom button fields for application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery. ❖ Involved in writing maven scripts for merging jar files into existing repository. ❖ Designed and developed HTML front screens and validated user input using JavaScript ❖ Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE. ❖ Designed and developed utility modules using the Google Guice injection framework. ❖ Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework. ❖ Created Technical rules and Business rules using JBRMS and configured them with service layers using Camel routes. ❖ Worked on migration of application from WAS to Tomcat/JBoss by participating in all aspects of migration plan starting from Development to production environments. ❖ Designed, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user. ❖ Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database. ❖ Configured and created application log files using Log4j required to trace application messages and CVS for Version Controlling. ❖ Used apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into java beans. ❖ Integrated Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to spring framework. ❖ Created Eclipse based applications using Eclipse Workbench UI. ❖ Configured Java objects with back end database tables using O/R mapping in Hibernate. ❖ Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using Angular.js. ❖ Building application with JS frameworks such as Angular JS, Ember, and Backbone.js. ❖ Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, jqValidtor, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Backbone.js, Ember.JS and Node.JS, Bootstrap, EXT JS. ❖ Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods. ❖ Worked with NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, MongoDB, and Riak. ❖  Implemented highly scalable application architecture using Oracle Coherence. ❖ Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic. ❖ Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit. ❖ Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation. ❖ Worked on PL/SQL using Oracle Database. ❖ Used Apache CXF for WSDL generation, for generating stubs from WSDL and using Soap UI for services testing. ❖ Implemented Dynamic search facility using AJAX toolkit DOJO. ❖ Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code. ❖ Implemented SOAP, WSDL and a subset of XML schema for a Web Service toolkit and for web services integration. ❖ Performed performance tuning to enable high performance of ILOG JRules using Sequential/Rete algorithm within Data Stage environments. ❖ Maintained report and request generator using Jasper Report.  Technologies: Java, GUICE,  Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Coherence, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, SQL, Struts, JSF, DOJO,  ExtJS , JSP, Servlets, Camel, JDBC, HTML, XMI, JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle, Maven, Log4j, SVN, Angular.js, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, GWT,  PL/ SQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Servlet, EJB, XML, Itext,  Oracle ECM, JIRA, Jasper report, ILOG, JRules.
