Sr. Java/UI Developer
Insight Enterprises - Plano, TX
Upgrade www.insight.com website and SQL Database migration with the client information of insight to a new mongo database. Insight has the millions of clients' information in MS Sql Server Database. Because of the websites slow performance on the existing Javascript, AJAX, JAVA layer and SQL Server Database changed to AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX, JAVA SPRING and Mongo Database. Web Controller JSUnit testing with JSON Data and integration testing for the performance testing of Web Services. Responsibilities: * Responsible in gathering the requirements and analyzing the dependencies. * Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, and Bootstrap. * Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/ cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API. * Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOMfunctions. * Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards. * Used AngularJS framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI. * Used JQuery library to build AJAX based web application module. * Performed client side validations using Javascript. * Used Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. * Wrote the controller in Spring MVC which delegates the request form front end to the delegator layer and to make calls with backend systems. * Implemented agile methodology for faster development and implemented CSS aesthetics for awesome graphics and tiles. * Used MVC software pattern for developing web applications. * Has worked with Node.JS for writing code in the server side and creating scalable network applications. * Used SQL Server 2000 as the back end and wrote SQL queries and stored procedure. * Used Dreamweaver tool for developing Web Pages. * Unit testing is performed using JSTest. * Developed application using Visual Studio. Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, CSS2/3, JSON, JQUERY, XML, Bootstrp Framework 3/2.2.3, Apache, Firebug, Adobe Photoshop CS6
