Sr. Java Developer
Capital One - McLean, VA
Worked for a leading bank in the prominent personal loans pre-approved loans project. The personal loans application is generated based on the credit worthiness of the customer and previous credit report of him/her. The application has 2 parts to it: Loan acquisition and loan servicing parts. Loan acquisition part includes campaigning for the loan offers, offers being pushed for the customers using emails. When the customer logs in, the offer details and terms would be shown with choices of different APR's. The customer can choose, apply, and will be credited with the amount. The servicing application would take care of showing the payments to be made for the loan account.  Responsibilities • Worked in agile team in 2 weeks sprints to rapidly develop output to partners and incorporating feedback with product owners. • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JSF2.0, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, and Angular JS, npm, Bower Components, Node JS, and Gulp. • Created Test framework, which can adopt the API and give the integration test results. • Extensively worked on JUnit, Miskito etc in Test Driven Development Environment. • Extensively worked on plugin methodologies, and integrated Web UI layer with Java API Orchestration Layer within Distributed networks. • Used SPRING framework that handles application logic and makes calls to business objects and services mainly Rest Web services. • Implemented Rest Client using the Jersey Framework and UPF framework, which is implemented by Capital One. • Consumed EAPI using the Rest Client from API Gateway. • Developed a Rest Web Service that is shared between front end and customer review info review system. • Designed Data Modeling with Logical and Physical Models using Erwin Tool. • Created Stored Procedures and Functions in SQL and PostgreSQL. • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application onto Tomcat Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process. • Used Maven as the build tool and is scheduled/triggered by Jenkins (build tool). • Code quality check using PMD, Code coverage checks using SONAR. • Extensively worked on Build procedure management like GIT/Jenkins, CICD Environments etc. and contributed to the code procedures and implementations • Implemented JMS in tomcat server. • Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the end user.  Environment JDK 1.7, Spring STS, Mac, Windows 7, Core Java, UPF Framework, Junit, Mockito, Angular JS, Node Js, Gulp, Grunt, Bower components, Ruby1.9, Ruby Mine, Html5, CSS3, Json, JSF2.0, Postman, Rest-Client, Spring, Hibernate, Unix, REST Web Services, SOAP UI, Maven, Apache Tomcat Server, PostgreSQL, JUnit, Git Hub, Agile, Version One, Jenkins, SONAR, Log4j.
