Sr. Java /J2EE Developer
GuideOne Insurance - West Des Moines, IA
Personal Lines Policy Administration System (PL-PAS)  The PL-PAS Project represents a major overhaul of the GuideOne Personal Lines business unit. The program will involve analysis and making changes to products, processes, technology, staffing, distribution and marketing. The objective of this initiative is to deliver administrative processes and underlying system capabilities necessary for the personal lines business unit to achieve their 10 year strategic objectives. It also implements the integrations to existing systems and vendors associated with the GuideOne PL-PAS. The GuideOne Personal Lines Rater (PLR) is an easy-to-use business tool. It can be used to quote new business for Auto, Home, and Personal Excess Liability. Using this system agent can create a new quote or view a specific agent's quotes and issue policies. Responsibilities: • Involved in Brain Storming sessions, Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories. • Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases. • Involved in the front end using JSP, JSTL and JQuery, JQuery UI, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX. • Worked on Spring modules like Dependency Injection (DI), Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) and Spring Mail, Spring JMS. • Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC framework. • Spring AOP is used for logging, auditing, transaction management to distinguish business logic from the cross cutting concerns. • Used Spring JMS to post and consume the messages from the IBM MQ Server. • Worked with Spring controllers, View Resolvers and Model and View Objects. • Used Spring Mail for sending emails to the customers and business. • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database. • Integrated Java systems with .Net systems using BizTalk integration tool. • Responsible for design of WSDL files and schemas. Designed and hosted SOAP based Web Services on WebSphere Application Server. • Implemented quartz jobs for running the batch jobs based on the cron triggers configured in the spring files. • Developed Unit /Integration test cases using Junit, Easy Mock, Mockito and Selenium tools. • Used Ant/Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications. • Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow agile methodology. Environment: Java 1.7, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Web services, jQuery, jQuery UI, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, Jenkins, Web Sphere 8.5, CVS, Google Guava, IBM MQ, Mockito, Spring MQ, Spring MVC, Web Services, SOAP UI, JAXB, WSDL, XSD, XML, XML Spy, SQL, BizTalk Server 2010, Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, DB2, SQL Server 2010, Microsoft Visio, Eclipse, WinSQL, Squirrel SQL.
