Senior Front End Web Developer
Infinite Conferencing, NJ
Project: Service Analysis System  Infinite's best-in-class support has made it one of the leading providers of conferencing and virtual events in North America. Delivering enterprise-level conferencing services to businesses of all sizes, Infinite is dedicated to helping its customers' meet the needs they have today and innovating to meet the needs they will have tomorrow. The website is designed and implemented according to MVC model architecture with neat and simple design using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. The system initiative focuses on helping the engineers to check, manage or maintain existing services and view service history or status like data usage.  Responsibilities: ● Participated in the requirements analysis and technical assessments to make it user-friendly interface. Involved in translating functional requirements into technical requirements. ● Involved in the process Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance phases of the Software Development Life Cycle. ● Performed in an Agile Scrum Environment and work instrumentally with the development manager to ensure delivery of solutions that meet or exceed business objectives. ● Used AngularJS framework created a well responsive single page website with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. ● Used Bootstrap and media queries created a responsive website across different size of screen, from smart phone to laptop. ● Designed UI using HTML, and validated with JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server. ● Worked on different web-browsers such as IE, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and  Safari. Focused on resolving numerous cross browser compatibility related to CSS and JavaScript. ● Developed webpage using AJAX and AngularJS that interact based on events. ● Implemented MVC architecture by applying Angular JS framework. ● Used W3C Validator to check the markup validity. ● Used Chrome Inspector, FireBug, IE Tester and other debugging toolkit to track and fix bugs. ● Used version control tools Git and Sourcetree. ● Implemented scripting packages by using Bower. ● Involve in maintenance and support, including other existing applications. ● Responsible for introducing and increased quality standard for designs and maintain quality consistency. ● Develop innovative internal solutions to proactively meet the needs of our clients, communicate with Project Managers, Software Engineers and other creative team members throughout the planning meeting.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Git, Gulp, Bower.
