Sr Java Developer
Bank BNP, Paribas, NY
Verizon is one of the largest communication technology companies in the world. Verizon operates America's largest 4G LTE wireless network and the nation's premiere all-fiber broadband network.  User administration module is used to create or modify user of different user types. The request module is used to submit operator, terminal and location requests. View alert and article sections are used to download forms and articles published by end users.  • Responsible for gathering all required information and requirements for the project. • Involved in design of Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Event Diagrams as a part of Functional Design Document (FDD) using EA tools. • Followed Agile methodology, accomplishing the tasks to meet tight deadlines. • Developed Controller classes and bindings for the Spring POJOS with screen fields using Model Attribute feature of Spring MVC framework. • Monitored and scheduled the UNIX scripting jobs. • Developed JSP's for reusing view components in the Spring MVC design pattern. • Integrated Spring with various other frameworks and technologies like Hibernate, JMS etc • Obtained bean references utilizing the Dependency Injection (DI/IOC) feature of Spring and appropriately configured resources in XML and annotations. • Designed DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Singleton design patterns. • Hands on experience in developing SOAP/REST based web services. • Implemented cross cutting concerns as aspects at Service layer using Spring AOP. • Involved in the implementation of DAO objects using Spring-ORM. • Involved in setting up of JMS Connection factory and Queues in Weblogic Application server along with appropriate JNDI names. • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO's and developed Hibernate mapping Files. • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema. • Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures using PL/SQL • Developed the presentation layer using Ajax, JavaScript, Asynchronous requests, CSS and HTML taken from Bootstrap to develop for multiple browsers including mobiles and tablets. • Developed Maven Script for the build and dependency process. • Version Control was mandated through Subversion. • Performed Unit Testing Using Junit. • Implemented Log4J to trace logs and to track information. Environment: Java,  JSP,  JSTL,  JSON,  JavaScript,  POJO's,  Hibernate,  Spring,  Spring MVC, Spring AOP,  PL/SQL,  CSS,  Log4j,  JUnit,  Subversion,  Tomcat 7.x,  Eclipse,  Weblogic 10.x, MYSQL 5.x,  Load Runner,  Maven,  Windows7,  HP-Unix(HP-UX).
