Java/J2EE Developer
SUNTRUST BANK - Atlanta, GA
Project description: Correspondence is a batch application as part of Suntrust Servicing department to process all customer communication related activities related to the Mortgage or Home Equity loans. It involves loading the customer data into the Batch Store and enrich the data and generate letters on daily basis.  Responsibilities:  • Hands on expertise and knowledge on CORE JAVA in developing various logical applications. • Good working experience on Collections, Exception Handling and Multithreading. • Extensive working experience on JDBC and Transactions. • Good working experience on SQL queries, Views and Stored procedures. • Extensive knowledge on Spring, Hibernate frameworks and project management using JSF. • Hands on experience in developing web applications UI using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON andAngular JS. • Good working experience on SQL Server 2012 in data access layer. • Extensive working experience on struts and Spring MVC. • Developed SpringIntegrationand Spring JPA for loading the data feeds from upstream system to staging database using Servlets and JSP. • Extensive working experience on RabbitMQ, JMS messaging services and Apache CXF experience. • Good working experience on IBM websphere and JBOSS application servers. • Extensive experience on Agile where I follow an extremely light and efficient Agileprocess, adapted to be most easily applied, and with that you may pursue and at any time change a project plan. • Good working experience on UML diagrams and Object Oriented Design patterns. • Extensive working experience on JSF and Struts. • Good working experience on various ORM tools like Hibernate and MyBatis. • Extensive working experience on UNIX based operating systems. • Hands on experience on Jersey Restful webservices along with oracle, MYSQL and its databases. • Integrated all correspondence applications to databases using OracleSQL and PL/SQL. • Design and documentation of RESTAPIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data in Unix. • Extensive experience on Realtime and online transaction processing. • Good working experience on Core, JEE design patterns like singleton, strategy and Gang of Four design patterns. • Good working experience on MongoDB and Cassandra Relational databases. • Good experience on Server side Core java development. • Extensive Hands on experience on JDBC, JMS, JSONand Networking. • Used Hibernate for database persistence layer and Spring for bean instantiation. • Extensive work experience on Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, JMSand other web technologies. • Designed RESTAPIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration. • Implemented REST based webservices, designed and built SOAP web service interface, implemented using SOAPUI &Apache Axis.  • Created JUNIT TestCases, TestSuites using JUnit for Java Service Layer which was developed using Spring Boot, Persistence layer using Hibernate and performed Automation. • Integrating the front end UI to the back end using Spring MVC framework. • Implemented Action Forwarding using Struts as Web service technology. • Extensive use of SOAP and RESTful webservices in developing applications of Mortgage web applications. • Extensive experience on GIT and SVN version control systems. • Hands on experience on testing using JUNIT and JMETER. • Extensive use of Servletsand JSFin my current project of correspondence. • Developed Business services using Spring framework to get the information from Mortgage web services. • Hands on experience on UNIX systems and Restful webservices. • Worked extensively onSDLC computing technology on Singleton and Factory Patterns. • Implements a form of Multi-Version Concurrency Control (MVCC) in order to avoid the need to lock the database file during writes using CouchDB. • Led focused project teams in the configuration and customization of Salesforce and other SaaS applications. • Developed and Executed JUnit Test Cases using Eclipse IDE. • Extensive knowledge on application development using JAXB, JAXWS, JFS and EJB. • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON for loan applications. • Worked on applications regarding disposition processing using ObjectOrientedArchitectures. • Created UI interfaces using AngularJSfor correspondence project. • Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring 3.0 technology. • Made proficient use of WSDL files and Used SOAPUI for testing the web services. • Developed User interface for the on demand letter order management tool for service agents using YUI technology. • Developed data enrichment process using spring batch from staging to core database. • Developed Stored Procedures to perform Data Integrity checks on the data feeds. • Developed Spring batch process to create outbound files. • Developed SOAP based webservice to invoke HPExstream Engine and transfer the generated pdf letters as the byte stream to service invoker. • Developed Jsch based utilities to transfer the files to shared file server over secure connection. • Developed xml meta generation for Imaging system using JAXB • Using HP ALM for defect tracking and test support activities • Using Ant Hill Pro and Sonar as Continuous integration tools for application build and deployment process. • Application production support by debugging and fixing critical problems.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Batch, Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, HP Exstream, HP ALM, AHP, JAXB, Maven, Eclipse, ECM, Unix Shell Script, Hudson, Sonar, SVN.
