Python Developer
Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL
Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment. • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash. • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings. • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python. • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions • Used Django for framework for accessing various Clinical Trial Data from various sources. • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records. • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations. • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria. • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python. • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing. • Worked with JSON based REST Web services. • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers. • Used Github for version control. • Worked in an agile development environment. • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle. • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  Environment: Python, Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows.
