Sr. Java Developer
Cummins - Indianapolis, IN
Responsibilities: • Actively involved in software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performing Object Oriented Analysis. • Involved in-group meetings with Managers, Team Members in designing, implementing and testing. • Integrated jobs scheduling using Quartz Scheduler for the application. • Developed application using Core Java concepts. • Worked on various design patters specific to the requirement. • Navigated and understood through the Workflow of the development. • Implemented changes in the code suitable to the Workflows. • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML and performed client side validations using Java Script. • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance. • Developed some applications using Web Services. • Experience in development of JAX-WS, Apache Axis forWebServices using SOAP, WSDL. • Created Business to Business communication by encapsulating SOAP Webservices in Java File and Stateless Session Beans. • Test WebServices using SOAPUI. • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, UDDI. • Created different interactive spring web flows for creating, modifying and deleting the case status. • Extensively worked on form validation using the Spring Validator framework. • Developed Form Beans and Action Classes to model views and client side functionality. • Used the Struts Validator framework for validating the forms. • Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality. • Used JSP, spring/ JSTL tag libs and Java Script for developing the view tier and used Service Oriented Architecture with Java and XML/XLST also. • Unit tested the applications before release to QA. • Worked with Quality Assurance team in tracking and fixing bugs. • Used Log4j for logging purposes. Configured SMTP appenders to send out mail alerts. • Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database. • Involved in Performance Tuning of the database. • Developed Scripts for customizing reports depending upon various customer requirements. • Responsibilities include design for future user requirements by interacting with users, as well as new development and maintenance of the existing source code. • Client Side Validations and Code are written using JavaScript.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Servlets, JSP 2.5, JUNIT 4.1, Struts 1.2, Spring […] Hibernate 3.2.6, EJB/MDB 2.x/3.0, Oracle10g, WebLogic 10.3.x, SOA, Eclipse IDE 3.7, Log4J, Ajax, JIBX, JAX-RPC 2.0, CVS, PL/SQL HTML 3, IBM MQ Series 6.0/7.0.
