Java Developer
Mylan - Pittsburgh, PA
Description: Mylan has its footsteps spread across 26 countries. In order to cater to each of them in the best customized manner suited to the local customers, these 26 different websites are being made in their respective languages. Each of them targets the local market with products specific to that geography. The project is a cluster of multiple websites each catering to the various countries that Mylan has been serving over the years. These websites are the platform through which Mylan makes its Digital Marketing very innovative with responsive and rich design.  Responsibilities: • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application. • Developed Object Model and UML design models for developing Use cases and created Sequence diagram, class diagram and active diagrams for application components and interfaces. • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and Spring templates. • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS and JQuery to display the data on the client side. • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application. • Used JQuery and Ajax to send the request to server side and receive the response. • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection. • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate DAOs. • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database. • Used EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system. • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with WebServices and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks) • Involved in implementing ActiveMQ the JMS (Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication. • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebSphere Application Server environment. • Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues. • Developed and debugged the application using RAD IDE. • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle 11g. • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components. • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the debugging process. • Responsible for maintaining Content Management System on daily basis.  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.0, AJAX, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, REST, JDBC, JAX-WS, JAXB, JavaScript, UML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, SVN, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere 8.5, IBM RAD, Oracle 11g, Maven.
