Java Developer
United Health Group - Eden Prairie, MN
Responsibilities: • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development life cycle. • Involved in business requirement gathering and technical specifications. • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Struts Framework. • Involved in building the Web Application using the Struts Framework by creating the Action classes, Form beans and configuring the action mappings in struts-config.xml. • Implemented JSF and Ajax to design the user interface. • Developed the web application by integrating JSFICEfaces employing AJAX at client - side components enabling rich web applications without any separate plugins. • Used Struts, Java Script, JQuery, BackboneJS, HTML5, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface. • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections • Presentation Tier is built using the Struts framework. • Used EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic. • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and package and deploy the application. • Used Gradle for ANT build • Jenkins and ANT scripts for automating the process of building, testing and deploying the system. • Developed the test cases using JUnit for unit testing. • Wrote WebServices using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface. • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session façade, DAO. • Used ETL tools for transforming data. • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in Weblogic Application Server environment. • Used data based EAi for copy of data. • Used CouchBase for the database interactions. • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle • Interaction with Oracle database is implemented using Hibernate (ORM). • Have been using AWS Cloud Computing Services for all the data interactions.  Environment: Java, J2EE , Servlets, Struts, Spring, PL-SQL, HTML, ICEFaces, ClearCase, Eclipse EMF, Weblogic Application Server, Rational Rose, Scala, UML, MS Visio, Rational Unified Process (RUP), XML, EAi, ETL tools, Oracle, VSS, Log4j, Unix.
