Sr. Java Consultant
NY Dep of Health and Mental Hygiene - New York, NY
Working with Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications (DITTT) I have had the chance to work in different projects within Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Below is the detailed information about the projects that I have been involved in:  Project: Build of Materials (BOM) Build of Materials helps to handles all new server requests. This application is used to document Server, Network, Load Balancing, Reverse Proxy, vLan, Backup, Security, Monitoring, Cluster and Certificate information. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Java, JDK1.7, Struts MVC, Spring, RESTFul web services, SQL Server 2012, JPA, XML, JSON, Quality center, Tomcat server, JIRA, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, UNIX, Log4J  Project: Sexually Transmitted Disease Electronic Medical Record (STD EMR) The Sexually Transmitted Disease Electronic Medical Record (STD EMR) application is utilized by the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene's Bureau of Sexually Transmitted Disease Control's medical clinics that collectively see about 80,000 patient visits per year. This application is used to document patient demographic and contact information, health insurance and reason for visit. Physicians use STD EMR to document their medical observations of patients, their diagnoses and the treatments provided and the related queues to review appropriate patient care. The application is capable of electronic laboratory test requisitioning and reporting and also interfaces with a patient portal so that patients can electronically retrieve their lab test results. The clinics also have patient registration kiosks which are connected with STD EMR. Data analysis of this rich database by administrators, researchers and epidemiologists are used for programmatic decision making, employee performance reviews and epidemiologic analyses. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Java, JDK1.7, Struts MVC, Spring, RESTFul web services, SQL Server 2012, JPA, XML, JSON, Quality center, Tomcat server, JIRA, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, UNIX, Log4J, WebSphere MQ  Project: Veterinary Rodent Vector Surveillance System (VRVSS) The Division of Informatics and Information Technology (DIIT) is part of Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Working on an existing PCTD web application and handheld/tablet solution that will synchronize mobile data to a staging database which will be uploaded to the PCTD web application dynamically. The system handles all the daily business operations for the Bureau of Veterinary and Pest Control Services, including receipt and triage of complaints, inspections, follow-up inspections, clean-ups, notifications and tribunal actions. Environment: J2EE (Struts 2, Spring),  Java,  JSF, ArcGIS,  JMS, Ajax, Dojo, Axis,  SOAP,  WSDL, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, JQuery, Web Logic,  MS SQL  Server 2005, Oracle 9i,  itext, Log4J, Eclipse, Clear case, AGILE, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, TOAD Developer, MQ Series.
