Senior PHP/WordPress/Magento Developer
Learning Express Toys - Boston, MA
Responsibilities: • Implemented front-end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript and CSS. • Worked with REST based Web Services. • Developed compatible User Interface functionality using jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript & other libraries. • Used rotator.js, Jquery slide menu, easing plug-in to implement the front end. • Wrote SQL queries to fetch and store the data using MYSQL database • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, and CSS, jQuery other libraries • Setting up Angular.js framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery 1.1.0, JSON, and Java Script. • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using Angular JS MVC architecture. • Produced and consumed Rest Web Services, developed DAO's and DTO classed for services and consumed through Angular factory service calls from front end. • Used CSS3 to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3. • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript. • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX. • Prepared a Test plan which specified the testing approach and strategy and the scope of testing. • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc. • Worked on WSDL for building some specific web pages for database information. • Worked with Visual Studio for converting web pages from .NET to PHP. • Made various contributions to Drupal.org. • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal7. • Worked with LAMP stack, NOC. • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  Environment: PHP 5, XML, HTML, ZEND Framework, LAMP, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, MySQL, VPN, Cake PHP, Drupal, Jquery, Joomla, Magento, Wordpress, cake php, code ignitor, JavaScript
