Sr. Java Developer
Verizon - Waltham, MA
Project Description: Verizon is one of the leading mobile phone service providers; the web application provides the control panel to retrieve the data with the different conditions. The user can change the theme of the web page also. The custom tag called table tag was developed and used, this will handle the sorting the each column, vertical display, filtering the data using Ajax methodology. The separate module will handle the exporting the data to PDF, CSV and XLS formats. We used Jfreechart for graphing. The data will be fetched from multiple databases. Responsible for installing Weblogic in Solaris OS.  Responsibilities: ➢ Analyzing business requirements, story-boards and similar artefacts of the scrum process, work in an agile development environment with a quick turnaround time and iterative builds. ➢ Developed service classes, DAOs classes as per the design and developed business logics using CORE JAVA API and Data Structures. ➢ Configured WebSphere resources like JDBC providers, JDBC data source, connecting pooling. ➢ Responsible for Unit Testing using JUnit and JWeb and Implemented unit testing (Junit), functional testing and integration testing. ➢ Responsible for coding with the use of Object Oriented Principles and implementing MVC with JSP, Spring1.2.9. ➢ Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven andexperience in build management with Ant Script. ➢ Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience. ➢ Implemented JDBC Framework for Object relational Mapping to SQL Server Database and Wrote and modified database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and Pl/SQL Scripts. Database administration, maintenance, and schema design for PostgreSQL and MS SQL Server. ➢ Developed the application using Spring Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern. ➢ Configured and maintained Spring Application Framework and Involved in writing JPA-Hibernate named and criteria queries and configured entity manager and persistent context in the application. ➢ Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer (Object and Relational Mapping) using Hibernate. ➢ Involved in deploying applications on the Weblogic Server. ➢ Using Eclipse to development, debugging application and codes and deploying new functionalities. ➢ Developed middleware components using EJB's, used container manager transactions for transaction management and involved in mapping JPA entities to database tables. ➢ Developed User Interface satisfying business requirements using Java Server Faces (JSF 2.2, Primefaces, xhtml, Javascript, Jquey), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and XML. ➢ Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release. Tested application at local severs to make sure codes are working as per expected results. ➢ Consumed RESTFUL Webservices using apache Http Client to get data from different other systems. ➢ Responsible for retrieving data from various sources such as Oracle and XML documents and worked in the Webservices Environment developing the service methods.  Environment: Core Java, Eclipse, JSP, GWT, UML, Ajax, JSON, Servlets, J2EE(Spring and Hibernate), Weblogic 10 Server, XML, Enterprise Service Bus, Apache Http Client and Mockito Oracle 10g Database, WebSphere, JavaScript, Message MQ DOJO, AJAX, Jquery, Angular JS Spring, Log4j, JUnit 3.8.1, Selenium2.4, ANT,  Windows XP and Solaris and VSS, Axis2, java Mail, Subversion, Agile/Scrum Methodology.
