Java Developer
INVISTA - Wichita, KS
INVISTA is a global company creating value for customers and shareholders across a portfolio of advantaged intermediate chemical technologies, high performance polymers, and differentiated fiber and other downstream products.  The current application is to develop a CSR dashboard needed by customer service representatives (CSR) team for viewing the status of orders processed in the Enterprise resource planning system. Responsibilities: • Worked collaboratively with product owners to examine the requirements and understand the functionality. • Extracted the Use Cases based on business requirements and was involved in creation of Class Diagrams, Object Interaction Diagrams (Sequence and Process) and Activity Diagrams. • Developed the presentation layer of the project using HTML5, CSS, JSP and JavaScript. • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS LESS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages. • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, jQuery, AJAX, Validator, AutoComplete, JSON, and (Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap). • Created Java based Servlets for the web tier. • Developed JavaScript functions to format and validate the user input fields. • Worked on Hibernate (Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool) to communicate with the database. • Implemented exception handling to catch and handle critical errors. • Developed Unit Test Cases and performed unit testing to verify the functionalities. • Developed SQL and PL/SQL (Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers) code to implement complex business rules on the database. • Logged errors and fixed bugs at different stages of development process and integration test cycles. • Maintained code repository and versioning using CVS and SVN. Environment: Java (JDK 1.5), JSP, Servlets, Hibernate 3.0, JavaScript, JDBC, HTML5, CSS, JBoss Server, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Adobe Flash, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse, SQL Developer, Tortoise SVN, CVS
