Java Developer
Verizon - Dallas, TX
Member portal application provides health plan members, the ability to register online, View coverage information, view eligibility information, update eligibility information, view medical and pharmacy benefits, order ID cards, print temporary ID card, view coverage documents, view claims, find provider, change primary care physician and view health information.  Responsibilities: • Developed planning, requirements analysis, design, writing unit tests throughout the life-cycle of the project using Agile (Scrum) Methodology. • Analyzed and estimated the change requirements. • Worked in the enhancement, testing and bug fixing of Member portal. • Worked in the enhancement of registration servlet application using Java, servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring, HTML, Angular JS and used design pattern like MVC. • Developed client side validations using HTML and Angular JS. • Made use of Angular JS to simplify both the development and testing of this application. • Responsible for Developing and integration of ORM framework like Hibernate. • Integrated the Spring framework with the Hibernate framework. • Developed web services using SOAP. • Made use of SOAP protocol in the implementation of web services in this application. • Used XMLspy for validating XML data. • Made use of SOA architectural pattern to provide services to the components in the application. • Worked on setting up and integrating the registration servlet application in Websphere application server with the back ends. • Used SQL and PL/SQL Programming extensively to talk to Oracle database. • Created tables and stored procedures in Oracle. Used Hibernate for mapping between databases and objects in Java. • Used Eclipse IDE for entire application development. • Performed web services testing on SOAP UI. • Configured beans.xml for reg. Servlet application. • Worked on developing user interfaces for member portal using JSP and JSTL, and converted the request parameters from user interfaces into XML format. • Developed a small module using AJAX in making asynchronous requests to server. • Developed Junit test cases for member portal and reg. servlet application and testing. • Worked on ANT script to build the reg. servlet application. • Worked on the root cause analysis for the major outages in the portal. • Interacted with customers in solving their issues in portal. • Worked on creating test data for testing in the lower regions.  Tools & Technologies: JDK 1.8, Spring 4.0 (MVC, AOP, Transaction Management, DI), Hibernate 4.1, XML, HTML 5, CSS3, Angular JS, Eclipse 3.1, Websphere 7.1, Toad, Oracle 11g, CVS, ANT 1.8, SOA, Solaris 4.1, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, XML Spy, TcpMon, SoapUI, AJAX, Velocity, Junit, EasyMock, Jenkins, EJB 2.1, JSTL
