Sr. Java Developer
HSBC, Greensboro - Chicago, IL
Description: HSBC Group is one of the world's leading banking and financial service organizations. The main application is a web-based application, which included many modules of Retirement plan like 401(k), IRA, Defined Benefits, Profit sharing and Defined Contributions. I was involved in working on the Defined Benefits module.  This application was mainly used to track participant and retiree data for the customer, including plan information such as: status, service and earnings, and participant contact data. It is also used to handle all reporting details, make benefit payments to retirees and take care of all Federal, State and local withholding requirements.  Responsibilities: • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex. • Developed Hibernate persistence layer modules using EJB Java Persistence API (JPA) annotations and Entity Manager. • Worked on IBM WebSphere Commerce V7.0 for customer interaction platform for online and cross channel commerce. • Used PuTTYto control system running a LINUX based operating system via SSH using command-line interface • Wrote Perl programs to archive the log files on a daily basis to enable faster troubleshooting. • Supported the company's business model by using IBM WebSphere Commerce V7.0. • Used Ajax calls extensively - using Jquery, inside the WebApps and create a seamless flow of Quotes. • Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application. • Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, MySQL and Perl • Design/developed custom SAP IPC web application for configurable items using SAP NWDS 73 and NWDI. • Implement and configure Jalopy, Log4j, CVS and WinCVS open source packages • Having conceptual knowledge and understanding of SAP CRM, VMC, XCM, ISA, IPC, Sales and Distribution, and Variant Configuration. • Excellent understanding and knowledge of each module of eReader app on different operating systems like Honey comb, ice cream sandwich, Jelly bean, kindle fire etc. for android. • Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements. • Developed of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. • Architect and designed the Customer Self Service application using open source technology (Apache Shiro, JiBix, Spring, Tiles and JSF, H2 In Memory Database). • Wrote Windows PowerShell scripts to create, retrieve, update & delete to manage info in Windows Azure Active Directory. • Build and deploy custom SAP IPC web application to SAP NetWeaver 73 application servers. • Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations. • Developed PL/SQL procedures for login module and written complex sql queries. • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers. • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor. • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++. • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose. • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS. • Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript. • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework. • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application. • Developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText • Design and develop GUI and back-end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment. • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report. • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine. • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  ENVIRONMENTS: IBM Websphere Commerce, Java/J2EE, Perl, SSH, SOAP UI, Jalopy, Log4j, CVS, WinCVS, NWDS, NWDI, Spring, Hibernate, Jelly bean, PowerShell, Struts, Css, Html5, UI, Json, Jquery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, XSLT , Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Apahe Shiro, Apache Tomcat, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, SAP NetWeaver NWDS, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa.
