Sr. Business Analyst
Ameri Health - Cranbury, NJ
ICD 10 Project is a federal mandate to replace the current ICD-9 Diagnosis codes with the ICD 10 Diagnosis code set. The US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is requiring health plans, Physicians, hospitals, and other health care professionals to be ICD 10 compliant. The HHS also mandated that the entities migrate from the existing HIPAA 4010 electronic transaction set to the new X12 5010 transaction.  Responsibility: • Managed Project scope, milestones, risks and user acceptance tests with internal and external stakeholders. • Conducted meetings with users and other stakeholders to elicit, organize and document the requirements and also created project status reports and feasibility reports for stakeholders. • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into Business Requirement Specifications (BRS) and Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) for the designers and developers and QA Team to understand them as per their perspective. • Designed and developed use cases, activity diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Net Beans. • Extensively facilitated meetings/conference calls with stakeholders, project managers, developers, QA Analysts and other end users based onsite/offshore to deal with business and technical issues and to resolve the issues. • Created "As-Is Business Models" to understand the existing claim settlement process flow through interacting with SMEs, underwriters and Finance department. • Shared knowledge by performing Impact Analysis on transition from ICD 9 - ICD 10, made suggestions on UI and other changes required to be met during transition. • Worked intensively with Medicare & Medicaid claims and claims processing for HIPAA 5010 X12 transactions. • Involved in requirements gathering and preparing the technical system design and System Design analysis of the flow of EDI transaction sets 834, 835, 997. • Performed Gap Analysis for new functionality requirements, as well as prioritized them based on actual business needs so as to align them with the product release roadmap. • Involved in testing the conversion of the application by generating test scenarios in test plan document. • Validated data at the back-end to ensure that all the Claims related data had been loaded to the corresponding Data Sets in the back-end and the pricing for these Claims was completed as per the Standards. • Analyzed the results, generated reports and tracked the defects using Quality Center. • Created and maintained the Test and Traceability Matrix. • Conducted System, Integrated and Regression testing to the application using Business, Functional, User Acceptance and Usability testing. • Prepared test data in HIPAA compliant X12N format for both inbound and outbound healthcare EDI transactions. • Trained implementation managers to work on the new application. • Generated SQL scripts for Development and testing purposes. • Actively participated in all phases of testing lifecycle (Design, Planning, Development and Results)  Environment: Windows Server 2008, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11, PL/SQL, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Project, .NET, Java, JavaScript, JSON, SOAP, UML, Agile, Quality Center.
