Sr. Java/Web Developer
Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL
Description: As a Developer and a member of Information Technology group, I was the part of a diversified Healthcare services firm that reflects the needs. I was instrumental in helping to maintain the reputation for technology excellence in both business applications and new innovations. My area is responsible for performing application software development for system enhancements, potentially across a variety of technology platforms. As an integral part of this dynamic and progressive team, l developed basic application software for system enhancements, across a variety of technology platforms. I had to assess and determine design considerations, which include application programs that contain the business logic, and modify databases, client reports, and internal reports. Responsibilities: • Analyzing the Business Requirements and System Specifications to understand the application. • Created the technical specifications for Announcement Capture Module, which captures the announcements from all vendors & check for the reliability of the source & information. • Involved in analysis, designing, developing, deploying & testing activities in the re-engineering of announcement module. • Developed Use Case diagrams, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagrams. • Adopted J2EE design patterns like Singleton. • Developed Web services using JAX-WS. • Configuration of application using Spring MVC, Hibernate, DAO's, Actions Classes, Java Server Pages. • Configuring Hibernate and Tiles related XML files. • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML. • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML. • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript using Dreamweaver. • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive. • Used the Node.js and backbone.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. • Used JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery as view components in MVC. • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information. GUI was developed using JSP, JSF AJAX and JavaScript, spring framework. • Involved in coding JSF and configuring spring framework. •  Created responsive Web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Foundation framework. • Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE. • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and also used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL. • Deployed the applications on Weblogic 8.0 Application Server • Used Oracle11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures. • Used Toad database tool to develop oracle quires. • Involved in writing   Criteria queries and SQL queries and removing JOINS for performance tuning. • Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing. • Design and Development of Struts Action classes, DAO, Views using Struts custom tags.  Environment: Java, HTML, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, AJAX, JAX-WS, Web Services, JNDI, Oracle 11g, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Intel (x86_64), HP-UX/Linux, RAD 7.5, JUnit, FTP, Weblogic 8.0, ANT, Quality Center 11,  UML, SVN.
