Sr. Functional Analyst
Minneapolis-based Target Corporation - Minneapolis, MN
serves guests at nearly 1,800 stores and at Target.com. Since 1946, Target has given 5 percent of its profit to communities, that giving equals more than 4 million a week. Objective is to facilitate, analyze, execute, govern and represent plans or identified approaches within Information Management, and be the liaison to key partners on initiatives within the organization.  Responsibilities: * Analyzed business requirements and system requirements as part of a project team. * Identified and thoroughly analyzed defects, issues, risks, and action items. * Verified that the performance of the web pages comply with Target's Performance Guidelines. * Providing UAT certification for new components and special projects. * Developed, Updated and Maintained QA documentation, Testing data and Reports. * Performed weight measurement and analysis using browser developer tools and testing software and updated values in the Digital Specification Document monthly. * Keeping the DSD (Digital Specifications Document) up to date with the latest max image weights and point values. * Worked with Project Manager and Developer's to Triage issues and document necessary resolution. * Used JIRA for Reporting bugs, Performance issues, Enhancements, and Tasks. * Managed Bug backlog by prioritizing and assigning bugs for retesting to appropriate team members. * Tracked and reported the progress of the bug's retesting effort until closure. * Participated in web page planning sessions to identify possible defects and issues. * Collaborated with developers as needed to isolate root cause of defects/ issues. * Worked with common web site applications, web browsers, and user experience best practices. * Used and updated HTML and JavaScript during web page testing. * Served as Team Lead, Trainer and Mentor for new hires. * Built and Executed Automated Test Scripts using KITE and Webpage Test. * Provided status reports to Manager.  Environment: Y-Slow, Dreamweaver (CS5.5), Python, JavaScript, HTML, WebPagetest (Performance tool), Firefox, Firebug, DynaTrace Ajax Addition, SnagIt, Quality Center, JIRA, QTP, Python 2.4, MS Office, MS Visio.
