Product manager
GENSCAPE - Houston, TX
Quantitative modeling - Daily S&D and forward looking S&D forecast for L48 and regional natural gas supply and demand (S&D) modeling for lower 48 states.  Daily regressions of pipe nominations, no notice volumes, proprietary observations - powerburn , cems , earthsat provided gas hdds/cdds  and various other independent variables against EIA reported data.  15 day forecasts are based on Earthsat forecast for the next 15 days against EIA reported supply and demand.  Two year forecasts are used to provide a range of end of season storage and daily storage changes based on smoothed weather inputs from the last 30 years. ◆ Components of the S&D include production, power burn, residential and commercial demand, industrial demand, canadian and mexican imports and exports, lease and plant fuel, lng sendouts and storage. ◆ Daily observed production is based on nominations observed on pipes in the producing regions.   Forecast production is based on declines observed on historical state level production data from HPDI and rig counts based on Rig Data.  Power burn uses a multivariate regression of nominations , CEMS gas burn and EIA.  Forecasts are weather based. Residential and commercial demand uses a regression model of nominations, regional weather and EIA provided demand.  Imports and exports for Western and Eastern Mexico and Canada are calculated based on actual noms are the various points on pipes into and out of the US.  Industrial demand is calculated on noms at large industrial customer meters and taking into account various macroeconomic indices published by the federal reserve.  Lease and plant fuel is calculated based on outputs of the daily and forecast production model proportionate the amount of production in the various EIA regions. ◆ Decline curve models use historical HPDI data compiled from state data.  It fits linear, exponential or hyperbolic curves to the actual historical production data from each play and vintage.  The coefficients generated for each play and vintage are then use to predict declining production of wells in various plays.  Forecast production for oil and gas is generated off these coefficients and number of working rigs and rig efficiency. ◆ Tools used for the calculation of the above reports include R, Python, Matlab.  Reports generated using various publishing tools such as Report Lab, Adobe Indesign, Flask, Pandas ◆ Team size: 8 people across Boulder and Houston.  One fundamental analyst, one modeler, six pipe analyst focused on pipe data and metadata associated with categorization of the noms
