Python Developer
Capital one - Richmond, VA
Responsibilities:  ➢ Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website. ➢ Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript ➢ Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. ➢ Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data. ➢  Used Django Database API's to access database objects. ➢  Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. ➢ Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript. ➢ Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience. ➢  Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application. ➢ Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. ➢ Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. ➢ Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) ➢ Used JQuery for all client side Javascript manipulation. ➢ Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP. ➢ Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code ➢ Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development. ➢ Built development environment with JIRA. ➢ Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with roboust reliability.  ➢ Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. ➢ Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. ➢ Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support. Environment: Python 2.7, Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Javascript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira
