Sr Java Developer
AT&T, Austin Texas - Austin, TX
AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications corporation, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas.  This application is used for analyzing various network resource utilizationtechniques that are being developed and are in research by Network Administration team. The application contains number of screens which enables the users to enter different analytical data for approval and research purposes. The data gets entered and stored in a datawarehouse and then to meet regulatory needs various reports are generated for the data entered for reporting purposes.  • Analyzed and converted requirements of the application into functional design. • Developed modules using MVC architecture with Spring MVC framework. • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declarations. • Developed Controller classes which processes the web request and to produce a model object which can be fed to the view to paint the web pages with data • Designed the DAO layer using Hibernate 4 and managed transaction in business logic. • Involved in Oracle SQL Stored Procedures, Functions to fetch data for compound composition, variation data information and user change audit transactions. • Developed REST based Web services to perform various screen updates and to fetch various transactional data to be displayed in JSON format to JSP's. • Utilized multiple design patterns like Singleton, Creational, and Behavioral in application design and implementation. • Created unit test scripts with JUnit tool for covering code in various modules. • Used Log4J to log various events and exception when performing various transactions by the users for debugging purposes. • Used Subversion/SVN as a version control and source repository system. • Implemented the Maven framework to ease the development, build and dependencies management thus saving huge development time to the organization. • Provided Production Support by interacting with the testers and fixing bugs. Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 6, JSP, HTML, CSS, Spring 3.x, Spring MVC, REST, Jersey, JSON, XML,  Hibernate 4, SQL Programming, SQL-Sever, JUnit, log4J, Subversion/SVN, Maven, Tomcat 7, Windows 7, Redhat Linux.
